

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/media-consulting ---

MEDIA CONSULTING | The Storiculture Company
top of pageWe bring togethercreative ideation, business specialists,
global insights and tangible frameworks
​to help content and media
entities script their future.strategic consulting +
executionBusiness
entry strategy, structuring &
transformationIP
development & muti modal
extensionsAudience
development, experience &
monetisationImpact
design & audience engagementthe core of our approachIdentifying the story–audience fit &
designing for passionate audience engagement.what to expect from usTangible RoadmapsMetrics and KPIsGlobal InsightsBespoke TalentWe combine a network of global specialists, passionate creators
with deep multi-disciplinary skills
to create solutionsConnect with us
to understand what we do and develop a custom plan for you.anilarjun@thestoriculturecompany.comThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/mentors ---

MENTORS | Storiculture
top of pageMENTORS & EXPERTSThe ProducerLAND group of Mentors and Experts come from diverse backgrounds and are global leaders in the industry. They are committed to providing support and guidance to the participants of our residencies helping them achieve their career and project goals.
ProducerLAND brings together a range of global experts from India, Asia, and Europe who deeply engage with every programme, participant and their projects. Their skilled mentorship along with the resources and networking opportunities provided by ProducerLAND has been key in accelerating many early stage projects towards their realisation.
Scale Up
Your Production House 2024
Producing
as the Next Step Winter 2024Producing
as the Next Step Monsoon 2023
2023ASCENT
Pitch Perfect 2023
Mathivanan RajendranCeline LoopStefano TealdiProducerLAND 2021
The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/faq-for-pitch-perfect ---

FAQ for Pitch Perfect | Storiculture Draft
top of pageFAQ for Pitch PerfectWho is Pitch Perfect for?
Pitch Perfect is for Producers who have at least one short or long form producing credit. Applicants must have an active project at any stage of Development or Production and must be available to attend all sessions of the online program.Is Pitch Perfect only for Producers working in Hindi language?
On the contrary! We invite applicants from all over India and South Asia to be a part of the ambitious cohort of Pitch Perfect.Are there any scholarships for Pitch Perfect?
As of now, our production and overhead costs do not allow us to subsidize our programmes or provide scholarships. We will update our information if this changes in the future.Do I have to attend all the sessions of the online workshop?
Yes, please plan to attend all sessions during the workshop. We ensure that all our  programmes are tailor made for our participants and hence, no session is unimportant!I am not available on the dates of the program. Can I get a recording of the session?
Participants are required to attend all online sessions live as the programme involves group sessions, discussions and feedbackReach out to Deepthi Pendurty at
deepthipendurty@thestoriculturecompany.com for any questions and queriesThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/tarana ---

Tarana | Talent at Storiculture World
top of page
Tarana is a Narrative Designer at PlayGames 24x7, an international game design studio. She is currently co-writing a Tamil thriller feature film on women's reproductive rights which will be the directorial debut of a leading actress in the Malayalam film industry. In the past, she has served as head of the Brand Studio at The News Minute - South India's leading digital news channel, and Senior Writer of The Timeliners - where she wrote and edited taboo-busting essays on feminism, identity, and body popular millennial culture, and producer and co-creator of Tamil short 'B. Selvi & Daughters' (Winner - GIZ Her&Now grant for impact-driven films on women's entrepreneurship & nominated for 3 Critic's Choice Awards). 'Mary' (previously titled 'Sarah') was the only Indian project selected for the Bucheon International Fantastic Film Festival in 2019.Tarana
ReddyPortfolioFilm:
“B. Selvi & Daughters”
Essay (internet culture):
“A Playground With No Gate”Essay (mental health): “Sinusitis - A Metaphor”
Poetry: “umbi(b)lical”
poetry
“horror film damsel reflects”The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/south-asian-voices ---

South Asian Voices | Storiculture Draft
top of pageSouth Asian Voices - Making WavesFor the 10th edition of the Monthly, we look at the international film festival circuit
and the representation of South Asian voices and narratives within the domain.Harshita SethiaMay 2023International Film Festivals bring together cinematic voices from all across the globe and give creators a platform to showcase their work and reach global audiences. But how successful have these festivals been in echoing non-western voices, in putting forth the stories of people beyond the West, and in giving a platform to native and South Asian voices? Let’s take a look at some prominent film festivals in the world and their representation of South Asian Cinema.Illustration: Yash SaxenaThe first-ever South Asian Lodge at Sundance
The Sundance Film Festival began in 1985 but it was only in January 2023 the festival held its first South Asian Lodge - a collaboration with 1497, a non-profit organization dedicated to supporting and uplifting South Asian talent in the American film and TV industry. It took 38 years for the festival to host its first-ever South Asian Lodge, revealing how far we have come but also how much further we have to go.
How is the first-ever South Asian Lodge significant? It spanned over 2 days and marked the celebration of 20 years of Bend it Like Beckham, the first South Asian representation in the festival. Gurinder Chadha's film was the first to represent the South Asian diaspora in the West, a story about cross-cultural navigation in the West, told from an immigrant’s lens. The lodge brought a lineup of artists and creators of South Asian origins together, to participate in panel discussions celebrating the exchange of such stories, thus paving the way for many such spaces to exist.
2022, the year that was!
Over the past year, many South Asian films have gained recognition in various film festivals. All That Breathes - a film by Shaunak Sen received the Grand Jury Prize at Sundance and was featured in Cannes' special screenings. Joyland was the first Pakistani film in Cannes' official selection, it explores the story of a young boy falling in love with a trans-woman within a traditional Pakistani family. The films that made it big were unconventional and focused on minority representation with beautiful, humane stories.
Film festivals offer a platform for storytelling, allowing films that struggle to find a place in their own home grounds. For instance, releasing Joyland in Pakistan was a different battle altogether given the backlash it faced from the extremist factions in the country. All That Breathes, on the other hand, tells the story of two brothers protecting Black Kites in Delhi during the 2020 anti-Muslim riots, highlighting the dichotomy between their work and the Indian state's treatment of Muslims. Film festivals provide an opportunity for these stories to reach a global audience and create a significant impact.
Faridah Gbadamosi, a senior programmer at Tribeca Festival says “Before the pandemic, a lot of marginalized voices were only shown on screen as trauma voices. Films were only being programmed from the standpoint of trauma. If the stories we're telling from those spaces are only trauma stories, we’re inherently saying that those excluded communities only exist to be traumatized. Except during the pandemic, a lot of these festivals realized that the world's in a really hard time right now. We need to navigate the way we tell stories and make sure we are telling stories that are not hopeless.”Illustration: Yash SaxenaDiving into 2023
South Asian cinema had a strong presence at the 73rd Berlinale with 30 official selections, including 8 Indian films and 11 Berlinale talents. Five South Asian films made it to Cannes in 2023. Indian director Kanu Behl’s Agra and Canadian-Pakistani filmmaker Zarrar Kahn’s In Flames, were screened in the Director’s Fortnight event, while Anurag Kashyap's film Kennedy had its premiere as part of the midnight screenings, filmmaker Yudhajit Basu’s Marathi film Nehemich was the only Indian origin film playing in the competitive section. The film was a part of the La Cinef Section, which features a selection of student films. Afghan Director Sahra Mani’s documentary Bread and Roses had a special screening at the festival. The film revolves around the lives of three women in Afghanistan after the resurgence of the Taliban.
​
In the year 2022, the commercial Indian film RRR saw massive success at international festivals and the upcoming Tribeca Festival will feature Om Raut’s Adipurush - as part of the midnight offering. However, these films have drawn criticism for their hyper-Hindu nationalistic tendencies. While some festivals showcase mainstream films to increase audience outreach,  its impact may change the perception of Indian cinema on the global stage, it also risks becoming the standard against which mainstream Indian films are accepted internationally and the values and messages it upholds.
Where do we stand?
The USC Annenberg and Times Up study from 2017-2019 showed that only 8% of filmmakers in competition at the top 5 film festivals were women of color. Increasing diversity in the programming teams is crucial to address this gap.
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
Sundance, Cannes, and TIFF have implemented various initiatives to increase diversity, including mentorship
and funding programs.
​
Sundance has the Diversity Initiative,  which includes multiple programs to reach out to storytellers
from underrepresented communities and regions.
The Cannes Can: Diversity Collective was created in 2017 to increase diversity in the advertising and marketing
industry at the Cannes film festival.
TIFF in collaboration with NBCUniversal launched the Every Story fund in 2021, to support the stories of
diverse filmmakers. TIFF also has a  Media Inclusion Initiative.
While it's important for South Asian voices to reach global festivals, it's also important to redefine the bigness of these festivals and explore the relevance of regional festivals that echo our stories and our voices. Expanding the horizons of regional film festivals is key to reclaiming and redefining the meaning of "global”. There also needs to be a conscious effort for South Asian countries to come together and explore the potential for collaboration, have conversations about what it truly means to have our voices heard, and recognize our collective strength to pave the way forward.
​Faridah Gbadamosi says “My job is to make this industry more diverse and how do I change the people whose voices are deciding what's good and what's bad. An awareness comes from having lived experiences, which cannot be taught. My goal is to bring in more programmers of color, more queer programmers, and more South Asian programmers. To represent diverse stories, you have to change who the programmers are.”The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/articles ---

Articles | Storiculture Draft
top of pageBackLatest ArticlesOut Of The Shadows - The Evolution Of Sapphic Representation in Indian Films.Amar Singh Chamkila and
Amarjot: A tale of Love, Music and CensorshipWhat the Fog Hides:
Reading Sudip Sharma's KohrraThe Meat of the Matter:
Desire in Bhaskar Hazarika’s
AamisBeyond the mainstream hero: Gazing at transgressive masculinities on screen The Politics of Transgressive Horror
Guilty, but Blameless The Suffocation of Joyland.Guilty, but Blameless:
The Suffocation of Joyland.Heroines
of the SuperstarCinema’s Women in Refrigerators: The Fridging TropeFilm-making, Artificial Intelligence and EthicsAnatomy Of Cine-Patriotism: The Never-ending Saga of Misogyny and SadismAnatomy Of Cine-Patriotism: The Never-ending Saga of Misogyny and SadismFood in Film: The Gulf Between Necessity and Self-Actualization Profiling Cinema’s Young Angry WomenIdentities & Intersections in CinemaFemale Desire and Cinema Constructing an Anti-Caste Aesthetics: Emerging Negotiations on Silver ScreenOn Bindis, Drapes and Indian CinemaHumanizing Male Characters: Bidding Goodbye to Cinema’s
Toxic HeroesDesperately Seeking Anonymity:
Revisiting the Flâneur Through a Feminist Lens.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/behind-the-scenes ---

Behind the scenes | Storiculture Draft
top of page
Behind the Scenes :
A Closer Look at South Asian Women in ScreenwritingWritten by: Sneha Nair
Harshita Sethia
Design by: Yash SaxenaKartiki Gonsalves will go down in history as one of the first Indian women screenwriters to receive an Oscar for her movie
“The Elephant Whisperers.
Is this win enough to make a difference for women screenwriters
across South Asia?Despite the growing presence of South Asian actors and creators in Hollywood, the stories of South Asian women on screen have been limited and often stereotypical.
Screenwriting is one of the most crucial elements in bringing together a film. It lays out the fundamentals, ideas, imagination, and vision for the film on paper. It's a blueprint of what the film will look like or what it must look like.Historically, most mainstream cinema has always misrepresented South Asian narratives and is heavily dominated by the ideas and processes of the west. To dig deeper into screenwriting in
South Asia, and examining the role of women screenwriters would require us to ask questions and look beyond the available sources, and sometimes just ask the important questions,
without having all the answers. ReFrame Report 2022 findings show there was no significant increase in the number of women writers hired across the top 100 feature filmsThere was also a decrease in the number of women of color hired as writers 2% in 2022 versus 9% in 2021.9%
20212%
2022
32%31%
20212022But why is it essential to have more South Asian women screenwriters for movies?They bring a unique perspective to character writing, often infusing their characters with the nuances and complexities of their own lived experiences to portray the intersectionality of identities -Sai Paranjpye was one of the earliest Bollywood screenwriters, she started her career in the late 1960s and early 1970s when there were very few women screenwriters and directors in India. Her films showed the lives of ordinary people, through her extraordinary storytelling skills. She portrayed female characters through their experiences and life stories, moving away from the usual lens of the male gaze.
​
In the Indian film "Lipstick Under My Burkha," directed by Alankrita Shrivastava, four women from different backgrounds and ages explore their sexuality and desires in a society that seeks to control and suppress them. The film attempts to bring together how religion, society, and age all play into repressing women. And while it may have faltered in a few areas, the writing was able to capture the intersectionality of feminism that exists outside of the West.  The movie was also immediately branded as a ‘lady-oriented film’ and denied a censor board certificate.
Or the film  “Namesake” written by Sooni Taraporevala and adapted from Jhumpa Lahiri’s book portrays the character of Gogol Ganguli, who navigates the intersections of his Indian heritage and American upbringing, as well as the generational and cultural gaps between himself and his parents. As the film progresses, Gogol begins to come to terms with his identity and begins to embrace his heritage in a deeper way. Through Gogol's story, the movie explores themes of identity, cultural assimilation, and generational conflict, all of which are shaped by the intersections of race, ethnicity, and nationality.They also tend to tackle taboo subjects leading to an increased representation of diverse stories and perspectives
In her film "Chashme Buddoor," Paranjpye depicted female characters who were independent, and in control of their lives, which deviated from the typical portrayal of women in Bollywood films. Paranjpye's films also often included moments of female camaraderie and solidarity, in "Katha," for instance, Paranjpye portrayed the friendship between two women from different social classes and the challenges they faced as women in a male-dominated society.
Pakistani filmmaker Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy won two Academy Awards for her documentaries "Saving Face" and "A Girl in the River: The Price of Forgiveness," which shed light on issues such as acid attacks and honor killings in Pakistan. Obaid-Chinoy has been a strong advocate for women's rights and has used her films to raise awareness about gender-based violence and discrimination.
Or the film “Firaaq” written by Nandita Das examined the aftermath of the 2002 Gujarat riots through the eyes of several characters from different religious and social backgrounds.
​
Similarly in Mira Nair’s Monsoon Wedding, Sabrina Dhawan explored the complex layers of an Indian family and talked about issues that exist within almost every family but aren’t addressed. In Monsoon Wedding they touched upon how abuse is often ignored in the name of family values and cultural traditions and how the character navigates through this entire journey.
​Despite these examples, South Asian women characters continue to be pigeonholed into specific roles such as the submissive wife or the exotic seductress. This narrow representation has contributed to a lack of opportunities for South Asian women to break into the industry and has made it difficult for them to have their stories told in a nuanced and authentic way.In a study conducted by the Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film, it was found that in the top 100 grossing films of 2019, onlyand just were Middle Eastern. 1.6%7%of writers were Asian, Although we have a long way to go, there are steps being taken in the right direction,  writers like Mira Nair known for her award-winning movies "Salaam Bombay!" and "Monsoon Wedding”, and TV series "A Suitable Boy," being a vocal advocate for greater diversity in the industry and using her success to create opportunities for other South Asian women writers.
​
Another challenge facing South Asian women writers is the lack of mentorship and support available to them. Historically, an amalgamation of cultural barriers, unconscious biases, and misrepresentation have prevented South Asian women from accessing mentorship and overall support.
But the future has started to look bright for us with shows like “Never Have I Ever” paving the way for global recognition. The super successful Netflix series backed by Mindy Kaling, packed a writer’s room full of first-generation Indian Americans, like herself, intending to deliver a Saturday-night binge that moved its characters away from the model minority myth.
And “Ms. Marvel” featured  MCU’s first Muslim superhero Kamala Khan, written by Bisha K Ali who is focused on the solidarity between herself and other people from minority groups within the space. Here are some incredible opportunities for SOUTH ASIAN women IN SCREEN writING:1497 Writers Lab mentored by Deepa Mehta, Nisha Ganatra, Minhal Baig, the lab aims to support and lift talent of South Asian descent to reduce their underrepresentation in the U.S. film and TV industry. Sundance in 2023 will feature the festival’s first-ever South Asian Lodge, in collaboration with the 1497 Writer’s Lab.
The Tasveer Film Fund (TFF) supported by Netflix and is now in its third year of providing South Asian filmmakers an opportunity to bring their scripts to life with monetary grants, as well as year-long support with resources and mentorship access.
TakeTen, a joint initiative, in collaboration with Netflix’s fund for creative equity and Film Companion, aims to not just fund but also mentor future filmmakers. The films produced towards the end of the mentorship program will be showcased on Netflix India’s YouTube channel. Applications are restricted to citizens and residents of India over the age of 18.
Chicken and Egg Pictures is a US-based project that supports women nonfiction filmmakers, they run a Diversity Fellows Initiative which supports women filmmakers, including screenwriters, who come from diverse backgrounds. It includes a grant, mentorship, and networking opportunities.
Creator Rooms is a space for South Asian screenwriters to write powerful and fearless stories adapted from reportage, literature, and art. They develop film & series projects centered around the theme of Women & Identity.
The Margins Fellowship by The Asian American Writers’ Workshop offers mentorship, stipend, residency, and resources to emerging Asian American Writers.
The Film Finishing Fund by Women in Film has provided funding to women filmmakers and screenwriters who are close to completing their projects since 1985.
​As for South Asian filmmaking, well I think the rest of the world is waiting to see what you're going to bring us next.  Is something modern, dark, funny, or offbeat?  Something true, that we recognize; something about the weirdness of the world we all live in today; something young.  Something entirely South Asian, with no punches, pulled for the West (or the East): force us to come to you, because we will.
​
- Kate Leys (Script and Story editor)The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/genrex ---

GENRE.X
top of pageHORROR,
FANTASY & SCI-FI
MIX AND COME ALIVEOf inspiring work by creative artists and passionate aficionados - genre.x celebrates their deep cultural roots in South Asia.
Finding connections of shared stories and rich mythologies from the Middle East to South East Asia -
A curated space of imaginative storytelling.OUR LORE
FUTURE FORWARD &
SOCIALLY CONSCIOUSBringing forth myths, legends, folklores, epics, ballads, chants and motifs from a world of deep histories.
Building a space for Horror, Sci-fi and Fantasy genres, with socially conscious and future-forward themes around Gender, Identity, Culture, Future, and History.
Another world is imaginable.
​
FUTURISM(S),THIS SEASON
​
Stories of hope and radical new possibilities.
Drawn from our history that helps us navigate the future.
We address it all, this season.EXPLORE ANOTHER WORLDDjinns X JamSCREENINGSTRANSMEDIA FESTCome together to experiment with visual tools and collaborate on creating futuristic narratives, fostering conversations and collaborations around themes in futurisms.First Edition
Curated selection of films, videos, and art will explore different aspects of futurism: climate futures, feminist futures, digital futures, indigenous futures and queer futures, among others.Coming Soon
Exploring futurisms, voices and perspectives of South Asian artists, filmmakers, and performers – of diversity, creativity, under representation and unique visions for the future.Call For Artists
CONTENT THAT INSPIRESCLAIM YOUR
SPACEShaping distinct spaces for creators to build their worlds and connect deeper.Creators’ Collective
Develop Projects
Creative Jams
EXPLORE &
EXPERIENCEFans engage in a vibrant community that celebrates creators who push the boundaries of imagination.Physical Experiences
Digital Experiences
Merchandise
JOIN THE
CULTURECurators at organizations, festivals and brands tap into a network of creators, ideas and experiences.Curate Screenings
Transmedia Projects
Network of Creators
CURIOUS ?@genre.x.djinnsCome and explore the imaginative possibilities of the future to create an inclusive and inspiring world.
We invite your thoughts on futurisms.
​
Connect with shreyarawat@thestoriculturecompany.comTIES THAT BINDAviya Chadha
Shreya Rawat
Sahil Betigeri
Nishtha Manchanda
Jennifer Thomas
Vedika Pareek
The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/chanakya ---

Chanakya | Talent at Storiculture World
top of page
Chanakya Vyas is a playwright, director, and teacher currently based in Bangalore. He studied Devised Theatre and Performance from LISPA, UK on a Charles Wallace India Trust Scholarship (2014) and is a recipient of the Project 560 grant by the India Foundation for the Arts (2020) and the Ratan Tata Trust Scholarship (2018). He was recently commissioned to direct two projects - a play for the Ranga Shankara Theatre Festival (2021) and a series of online performances as part of the Science Gallery Bengaluru's exhibit PSYCHE (2022). He also served as the Artistic Director of Indian Ensemble, a reputed theatre company from 2018 to 2022. Currently, he is interested in learning filmmaking and will be going to the Prague Film School in July 2022.Chanakya
VyasPortfolioHamlets Live
(online live performance)Jhund
(two-actor play)
Once there was a Lake
(online game and audio story) Algorithms
(fictional play)
The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/the-monthly ---

The Monthly | Storiculture World
top of pageTHE MONTHLYWhere we examine cultural happenings & highlight opportunities & gaps in emerging cultural trends in media. Each digital report is crafted into narratives based on deep research that is both informative, and pertinent to the world we live in.South Asian Voices
- Making WavesBehind the Scenes :
A Closer Look at South Asian Women in Screenwriting​Decolonising
Sci-Fi in South AsiaWeb 3.0 for South Asian CreatorsKO in India Third Culture representation in Media The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/deep-dive ---

DEEP DIVE | Storiculture
top of pageIP ClinicAn online programme to demystify the world of IP law led by
law and media experts Amshula Prakash and Céline Loop. 6-8 November 2023CLICK TO KNOW MORE
Power UpA residency in Mumbai to supercharge your growth and scale up your Production House.27-30 November 2023CLICK TO KNOW MORE
INTRODUCINGDEEP DIVE FROM
ProducerLANDCrafting transformative
engagements to empower bold
and ambitious creative producers
across the South Asian region.PARTICIPATE INIntensive
Residencies
customized for Producers at
different stagesOnline
programmes
of curated peer-participation cohortsCustomized
one-on-one solution sessions with global expertsInteractions
with industry leaders & attend meet-ups through the yearOUR FORTHCOMING PROGRAM CALENDARIP CLINICA residency in Mumbai to supercharge your growth and scale up your Production HouseUpto 10 participants I 27-30 November 2023REGISTER YOUR INTEREST
POWER UP YOUR PRODUCTION HOUSEAn online programme to demystify the world of IP law led by
law and media experts Amshula Prakash and Céline Loop. Upto 10 participants I 6-8 November 2023REGISTER YOUR INTEREST
BEING A SHOWRUNNERWhat exactly does a showrunner do? How can you upskill to become a showrunner
for a long format project? Find out this and more in a 4-day intensive residency in Mumbai.Upto 8 participants I November 2023REGISTER YOUR INTEREST
IP ClinicAn online programme to demystify the world of IP law led by
law and media experts Amshula Prakash and Céline Loop. 6-8 November 2023CLICK TO KNOW MORE
Write to us to discuss how we can help
you take the best steps for your career.
Follow usThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/connect ---

CONNECT | The Storiculture Company
top of pageCONNECT WITH USPRODUCERLAND
Celineandteam@thestoriculturecompany.com
root.ax
Mathivanan@thestoriculturecompany.comSTORICULTURE WORLD
Soniaparekh@thestoriculturecompany.comSTRATEGY | FUNDS | BUSINESS
AnilArjun@thestoriculturecompany.comThe Storiculture Company
169/6, Quitla, Aldona, Bardez
Goa 403508
IndiaMantra House,
91, Marol Co-op Industrial Estate,
Andheri - East
Mumbai 400059
India
The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/copy-of-root-ax-grow ---

ROOT.AX GROW | Storiculture Draft
top of pageGROWadapting non-fiction for a multi-modal futureAre you a Female South Asian nonfiction writer/journalist who's interested
in new media formats?
​
Do you have a mountain of source material that is going
nowhere beyond the one article?
​
Does your work focus on culture, technology, gender & identity?
​​
What is it?
A 5 day Virtual LAB focussed on expanding your nonfiction/long form reportage piece into a specific new media outcome like, but not limited to, film, series, podcast and new media.
​
GROW lab is designed with a mix of Masterclasses & Peer Review sessions for 8 applicants from South Asia, culminating into a story proposal & a real-time pitching opportunity with the potential for story development & IP expansionCREATORSPrachi · Diya Gupta · Harman Khurana ·  Rohini Kejriwal ·
Swati Narayan · Sam PC · Menaka RaoMENTORSKanishka Gupta · Anisha Chandy · Deepti Datt ·
Alison Norrington · Samyukta Varma & Radhika Vishwanathan · Ayesha Ninan · Suhail Mathur · Mathivanan R · Cauvery Rajgopal · Celine Loop · Koreel Lahiri · Neha Mathews · Kavita · Rakshita Swami The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/genrexcon ---

GENREXCON | Storiculture Draft
top of pageGenre Con is a fan-convention powering super fandoms, through community experiences every month.
It promises a thrilling lineup featuring screenings, panels, fireside chats, workshops, cosplay, and in﻿teractive experiences.
Our first edition is centered around 'Heart of Horror', emphasizing the horror fandom.Our New Experience Is Coming Soon !Powering Super Fandoms2024 seasonOur Work in 2023Premium special access pop up screenings Community watch partiesHalloween special FestivalsImmersive Dining and tabletop experiencesOur Event Partners ;Get in touchThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/fund-support ---

FUND SUPPORT | The Storiculture Company
top of pageFUND
SUPPORTWe have carefully curated a network of domestic and international funds, based on their desire to push creative excellence from South Asia and drive strong social impact beyond entertainment.
We have a robust evaluation as well as selection process, to choose native projects that have good potential to make positive social and commercial impact globally.FUNDS WE
CURATEDEVELOPMENT FUNDSThis is an internal corpus that is created to support the long and arduous stage of Project Development all the way from story to pitch docket and legal framework.PRODUCTION
FUNDSWe believe in the power of collaboration. For success of independent films, we believe co-production is the most proven method for the maximisation of its potential. At TSC, we extend up to 50% of COP (Cost of Production).POST-PRODUCTION
FUNDSFor films already shot, we extend support up to 20% of COP to complete post-production.P&A
FUNDSThis fund will take care of Cost of Promotion for Theatrical and OTT Release in South Asia, and/ or Festival Expenses (Team Travel + Press Agent + Print) and/ or Market and Industry ScreeningsThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/immerse ---

IMMERSE | Storiculture
top of pageOPEN CALLIM/IM is looking for new-media artists, collectives and design studios that design and produce immersive and impactful experiences. If you are a creator with a finished project in immersive media and would like to showcase your work in Goa, then apply now.Submissions close by 29th September, 2023
Financial Support: Upto 1.5Lacs
​ Know More ↗️
Immersive experiences dominate today's digital art world.
Artists are experimenting with emerging immersive technologies to bring people together in an experience that moves, literally.
IMMERSE is a platform to showcase top tier immersive IP's by creators pushing the boundaries of impactful storytelling & world building.a digital zine about everything
that connects us
Know More
Latest Issue
IM/IM LAB was built for creators working in the realm of Immersive Experiences and engrossing Multimedia worlds across VR, AR, XR, Live Installations, and the Performing Arts.
Our first Virtual Cohort, powered by root.ax, focused on supporting and expanding the potential of immersive experiences built around art, entertainment, tech, and important social causes. The cohort helped elevate and execute experiences through a series of workshops, curated meetings, and peer reviews by fellow creators.
​CreatorsRagini
​KhushwahaNeeti SivakumarShanmati
MuralidharanVivekanandaSakhi UpadhyayaSapna Moti BhavnaniSneha NairSruti LodhaShreya RawatMentorsGabo AroraDoron SadjaShari FrilotPrashant PrakashAdvait GuptQila GillHasan SMathivanan RRiyaaz AmlaniJaiysha PatelSayak ShomeLesiba MabitselaAnuja GhosalkarAvinash KumarSophie AnselCURATE CREATORSDEVELOP PROJECTSBUILD IPNative Storytellers, thinkers from culture, art, impact & entertainment.Meaningful, future forward & socially impactful storiesBringing together culture, authenticity and scaleALIGN WITH BRAND ETHOSCONNECT WITH AUDIENCESBuild partnerships and integrate the brand with audiences, creators and immersive experiences.Focus on building audience segment centricity with socio-culturally relevant & future forward content.SONIA PAREKH
Program Leadsoniaparekh@thestoriculturecompany.comAVIYA CHADHA
Outreach & Partnershipsaviyachadha@thestoriculturecompany.comDARREN D'SOUZA
Creative Producerdarrendsouza@thestoriculturecompany.comThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/team-1 ---

Team (All) | Storiculture Draft
top of pageTeam Members The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/humanizing-male-characters ---

Humanizing Male Characters | Storiculture Draft
top of page
Humanizing
Male Characters: Bidding Goodbye
to Cinema’s Toxic Heroes25th July 2023 .  6 min readFilm-making is the process through which one is able to enter new worlds, witness alternate realities and learn about the valuable experiences of different communities. By putting the camera lens in the front, the lives and stories of people are captured, transformed and projected on the screen. These are the stories which are distant from our day-to-day lives and are distinct from our background, identity and beliefs. Yet, not only do we learn from these stories of the excluded ‘others’ through film-making but also, empower ourselves—by picking up the camera and marching into the cinematic arena, traditionally perceived as male-centric work.The act of using the camera as a tool of empowerment hits home for Bangladeshi director Rubaiyat Hossain, who talked about the importance of politically conscious film-making with Creator Rooms. She revealed how the camera acts as a buffer between her and the world on the other side of the lens. By using the camera as a safe passage, she can step into hyper-masculine places and cross the rigid boundaries which are laid down in front of women in Bangladesh.Known for works such as Meherjaan (2011) and Made In Bangladesh (2019), Hossain’s film-making revisits the idea of masculinity and liberates it from traditional expectations, allowing her male characters to be feminine, caring and nurturing. For example: in Meherjaan, the character of Khwaja Saheb, played by Victor Banerjee embodies femininity and is shown beautifully across the scenes. The setting, where he is carefully positioned with birds, leaves and nature hints at Hossain’s deliberate attempt to show Khwaja Saheb in a nurturing way. In most films, the death of male characters is presented in a ‘macho rugged’ manner; however, in Meherjaan, Hossain presents us with a refreshing picture of Khwaja Saheb—a Sufi, who gets ready for his death by putting on perfume and a rose to meet the divine or his beloved.From Sholay (1975) to Kabir Singh (2019), while Bollywood has a long history of being too attached to the trope of the ‘young angry man’, we have seen male characters who have stepped away from this toxic mould. For example: in Hindi Medium (2017), a situational comedy based on social issues, Irfan Khan possesses the qualities of being lovable and caring as he struggles with his wife to provide a better education for their daughter. Being lovable and caring is not much to ask for but due to the years of hyper-masculinized portrayal of men in cinema, it’s important to first humanise them. Humanizing masculinity and making it comfortable with non-stereotypical attributes are part of healthy film-making—where men are treated as figures, who can show emotions like love, care, sadness, nervousness, etc. and do not always fill the screen time with mere brawn.Within Lollywood or Pakistani cinema too, the question of ‘how male characters are represented’ is swiftly coming to the surface. Pakistani film and television actor, Adnan Malik in one of his interviews with BBC Asian Network called for the redefining of masculinity in Pakistani cinema. His character Romeo in Cake (2018), a cinematic marvel, is one of the examples of the shifting portrayal of men on the screen in Pakistan. Malik himself confessed that “he took the role of Romeo—the Jamali family’s soft-spoken, live-in nurse and the eldest daughter’s love interest—largely because of the character’s dissimilarity to the brash leading men that usually populate Pakistani and Indian films”. The character of Romeo being a shy live-in nurse marks the cinematic shift from romanticising the violent toxic males to showing healthy masculinity, where men stand with women and not always against them.It doesn’t matter how well-seasoned the dramatics, the cast or the acting is, the sketching of ‘young angry men’ a.k.a the ‘red flags’ as heroes in films is simply despicable—for cinema as well as the society. The success of films like KGF, Pushpa and Kabir Singh at the box office must ring alarm bells because these works consciously celebrate toxic masculinity, casual sexism and machismo and, continue to be willfully ignorant of their fallouts. In K.G.F, the male character labels his ‘love’ interest as entertainment, stalks her, kidnaps her and, on top of that—the female lead somehow falls head over heels for him. In Pushpa, stalking is the backbone of ‘romance’ between the two leads and is a strong lesson on how not to show women and love on the screen. And, let’s not even begin to talk about the absurdity of Kabir Singh. We don’t need more Rockys or Pushpas as heroes because truth be told, they are not! We need heroes who stand with women and are caring, lovable, funny, shy and yes, rightfully angry too."Sabahat Ali Wani is a writer, researcher and artist from Kashmir. She loves to explore the intersection of cinema with gender, identity and politics, and believes that the appreciation of cinema is incomplete without its criticism."The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/voice-of-vismad ---

Voice of Vismad | Storiculture Draft
top of pageSikh women have dedicated their lives to imbibing the practice of Shabad Kirtan - a 500-year-old tradition that is the primary form of devotion in Sikhism.
​
Voice of VismadVoice of Vismad​
In a religion with an egalitarian foundation, what stops these women from singing Kirtan at the Harmandir Sahib, the holiest site for Sikhs in India?
The film explores the past, present, and future of the tradition of Shabad Kirtan through two female kirtaniyas of different generations. The two women personalize the many struggles of being a Kirtankar as they share notes on life. The story of Sikhism and its changing shape in the modern day and age is looked at through a feminist lens.
Harman Khurana,
a young Sikh journalist and filmmaker travels to the Gurudwaras in Punjab and Delhi, speaks to Kirtankars, academics, & devotees
to deconstruct the essential questionWhat stops them from singing Kirtan at Harmandir Sahib and Takht gurudwaras in India when the religious code allows it?"Harman's grandfather often used to recite the afternoon prayers as she slept by his side after a long day at school. He always recited Ardaas before any of them would go on a trip or had an exam to take. The family would always visit Gurdwara Bangla Sahib every Saturday and participate in the seva. Sikhi was all-pervasive but never imposed. Harman wondered if she could call herself a true Sikh. A feeling of an insider-outsider prevails over her."
How can she relate to a faith that only allows women to be in the background and never at the center of the prayers?We follow the story of Jaswinder Kaur, a kirtankar and professor in her sixties, Jaswinder has seen it all.  A woman of few words, her achievements say it all. Spanning a singing and teaching experience of 30+ years, she is wise yet vulnerable. And, Harmanpreet Kaur, a young gun of liberal thought, took up performing kirtan, inspired by her father. A woman of the Internet age, college-educated Harmanpreet aims to start her Youtube channel. As a quiet rebel, she feels strongly about the skewed gender dynamics in the gurdwaras."Jaswinder has trained hundreds of students. She always discusses the sparse legacy of female kirtankars with her students and reminisces about her endeavors. Her wish to sing at the Golden Temple has taken a backseat over the years. Singing at the temple now doesn’t feel like a big deal for her. She feels she can create a larger impact by imparting kirtan knowledge to as many students as she can in her life. But one compliment is etched in her memory - if a woman is ever given a chance to sing at Golden Temple, it should be her."Harman investigates the stories of these women who dream to perform at the Holiest of Sikh sites, across Punjab and New Delhi. With her background in research, investigative journalism and filmmaking, she paints an arresting portrait of post-modern Sikhism and how the young women of today are renegotiating their relationship with their faith.We're seeking the right partnerships to make this film-- from writers to storyboard artists to community support-- we'd love to have a chat.
​
Write to us at
alinagufran@thestoriculturecompany.com
​
Find us at
​Produced by Alina Gufran, writer, editor, podcaster & creative strategist currently based out of Goa. A graduate of Prague Film School, she writes and makes films, apart from producing and co-hosting podcasts. Her debut novel is being represented by A Suitable Agency.
​
& Root.ax - a transmedia accelerator for bold and original projects. We design both custom and original accelerators curated to dramatically maximize the potential of your media projects through mentorship, networks & financial support.
​Working across film, series, audio, journalism, art & culture, we position your projects to the audience & industry, deepen their impact, and extend their IP across formats.
​
All this while fostering what makes it most valuable: the creator.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/copy-of-faq-for-pitch-perfect-1 ---

FAQ for IP Clinic | Storiculture Draft
top of pageFAQ for IP ClinicWho is Deep Dive IP Clinic for?
IP Clinic is for Producers who have at least one short or long form producing credit. Applicants must be available to attend all sessions of the online program.Is IP Clinic only for Producers working in Hindi language?
On the contrary! We invite applicants from all over India and South Asia to be a part of the ambitious cohort of IP Clinic.Are there any scholarships for Deep Dive IP Clinic?
As of now, our production and overhead costs do not allow us to subsidize our programmes or provide scholarships. We will update our information if this changes in the future.Do I have to attend all the sessions of the online workshop?
Yes, please plan to attend all sessions during the workshop. We ensure that all our  programmes are tailor made for our participants and hence, no session is unimportant!I am not available on the dates of the programme. Can I get a recording of the session?
Participants are required to attend all online sessions live as the programme involves group sessions, discussions and feedback.Reach out to Deepthi Pendurty at
deepthipendurty@thestoriculturecompany.com for any questions and queriesThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/the-suffocation-of-joyland ---

The Suffocation
of Joyland. | Storiculture Draft
top of page
Guilty, but Blameless:
The Suffocation of Joyland.15th Sept 2023 .  6 min readIn a scene that gives no hints of the tragedy to come, we see a pivotal female character in Joyland displaying resourcefulness and kindness in equal measure.
Somewhere, a transformer goes off.
“Aap ne pareshaan nahi hona hai.” Mumtaz gently and confidently soothes the bride as the lights in the beauty parlor go off during a makeup session. You need not worry, she calms the woman, as she makes do with a dozen flashlights jumping out of her co-workers’ mobile phones. It creates a luminous halo of white light as she expertly handles the final touches.
tumblr user @sleep-ogreSaim Sadiq’s Joyland (2022) is a testament to the spectrum of storytelling that is bursting at its seams to break free. Cinema is most effective not when it paints grand narratives or achieves pre-conceived ends. It does its job when it lands gracefully with authenticity and doesn’t attempt to forcefully reconcile contradictions. Joyland doesn’t shy away from
the task - it is an ensemble film that is unafraid to deal with the intertwining of homophobia, misogyny and trans-abuse.Anchored around the younger son (Haider) of the Rana household, the film is about an intergenerational middle-class family from Lahore. Haider lives with his wife, Mumtaz (Rasti Farooq), older brother Saleem (Sohail Sameer) and his wife Nucchi (Sarwat Gilani), all of who live under the resolute gaze of the family patriarch – the wheelchair-bound father who yearns for a grandson. When the unemployed Haider (Ali Junejo) finally lands a job as backdrop dancer at a local theatre that specializes in mujra shows, the erotic dance form prominent in Pakistan, he keeps it a secret. In the background, we see his wife sidelined and invisibilized as an unstable romance between Biba (the fiery trans-woman played by Alina Khan, who heads the dance troupe) and Haider gains momentum.
tumblr user @sleep-ogreMumtaz’s sacrifices are expected and solicited. She ends up being coerced into leaving a job she enjoys, restoring the heteronormative familial balance of the universe, as her husband engages in an affair, and she is told to think about giving the family an heir.The dynamic between the two, it is worth mentioning, is not just patriarchal; there is an uneven reciprocity that is less straightforward. In a stunning scene early on in the film, a qurbani is taking place in the family courtyard. The butcher hasn’t arrived and it’s Haider that will have to slaughter the goat. Amanullah, the patriarch of the family, looks on with disapproval as Haider fumbles with the knife. Mumtaz deftly steps in and finishes
the ritual to put the animal, and her husband, out
of misery. In the metanarrative of the film, Haider returns little
of these favors his wife liberally bestows upon him.
His sexual awakening with Biba cannot be decoupled with the misery of the woman who loses her autonomy and husband at the same time. It bleeds into the film, and taints his journey of liberation.tumblr user @cloudtinnBiba, who belongs to the Khwaja Sira community, navigates the world of desire through her own precarious position. Abiding by her stoicism to veil the pain of societal ostracization of the third-gender, she takes care not to wallow too long in her sorrows – she simply doesn’t have the time for it. Still, we don’t miss her hands shaking as she lights a cigarette while pleading with the owner of the theatre company for a confirmation of her next gig. This self-imposed emotional reticence can be found in Mumtaz too. Before deciding it was all too much to bear, she continues her silent suffering, stuck in an indecisive limbo - gradually becoming a shadow of her past self. Haider is not cruel, but he isn’t kind either, to himself or to others. He doesn’t try to negotiate for his wife to keep her job, doesn’t know how to take the lead when his pregnant sister-in-law’s water breaks, doesn’t know how to stand up to his own humiliation at the hands of his father and elder brother. We see this when he presumptuously voices his opinion on Biba’s decision to go ahead with her gender-affirming surgery. We witness his complete absentmindedness when his wife is holding a bottle of poison and sitting right next to him with a vacant stare. Haider isn’t a bad guy – the problem is that neither is he a good one. He is an unskilled adult, perpetually confused and uncomfortable in his own skin, always quiet when the moment demands him to use his voice. His inability to be himself – that is his undoing, and of those closest to him. This is felt most intensely in the crumbling of Mumtaz’s character. Her strong-willed nature dissolves under the absurdity
of half-understandings and the reality of conditional love. The elevation of her husband’s reputation upon the news of them expecting a son, her lack of agency in the matter, his passive attitude - none of this is lost on her. The film studies the effect of sustained trauma on interpersonal relations, and how oppression is no gateway to an enlightened worldview. Through close reading, we can see that Haider’s attraction to Biba is tied with his desire to experience anal intercourse, where his self-discovery takes precedence over establishing a mutually healthy sexual dynamic. While there is no clear signaling
on his sexuality, his muddled self-understanding inadvertently makes Biba an instrument of experimentation in their relationship. His repeated attempts at anal sex, despite Biba’s clear resistance, lead him to being thrown out of her room
as she yells a homophobic slur common to the subcontinent. Gandu. Faggot.Joyland provides a layered narrative that avoids the staleness of all-too-explicit messaging often found in progressive cinema, but weaves a story that is contextually grounded and does not spoon-feed its audience. It does the much-needed job of telling us that we are not learning any noble lessons by denying ourselves and making endless sacrifices to keep an arbitrary sense of “propriety” intact. Instead, we turn inwards, giving into narcissism built out of self-loathing.
The characters in Joyland explicitly yell out to us: the cost of giving up on yourself is not a small one to pay.Queer representation in South Asian cinema has a shameful history. Just a couple of decades ago, using queer and
trans characters to serve as comedic relief material was the norm. Who can forget the apoplectic Kantaben in Kal Ho Na Ho (2003), who starts shaking like a leaf whenever she walks into a room to find Aman and Rohit alone, muttering prayers, wholly ready to pass out? Inducing humor through homophobia has long served as a stale playbook. Nuanced portrayals have started making their mark only recently, with films such as Margarita with a Straw (2014) and Aligarh (2016) doing away with exaggerated flamboyance and other tropes around queerphobic portrayals.Certainly not the first to do so – but films like Joyland have humanized fluid identity-making in queer characters, and brought them back to earth. This means showing a character in all their hues, the light and the dark, the admirable and
the despicable. Cinema has come full circle when it doesn’t demonize or glorify, but portrays people as they are – just people. In Joyland, you’ll find them as messy as they come; no neat categories and no heavy sermons. Just people trying
to live in unlivable conditions.
Yusra Khan is a writer and digital policy enthusiast based between Lucknow and Delhi. Her interests are versatile, but she is particularly fascinated by the intersection of politics, labour and technology studies.
Currently, she works at Nvidia as a prompt-writing specialist, bringing human creativity to AI-generated outputs. A film addict since childhood, she is rumored to have rewatched Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na over sixty eight times till date, and doesn't plan to stop.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/pl-programs ---

PL Programs | Storiculture Draft
top of pagePROGRAMSProducing as
the Next StepA transformative residency in Goa for experienced professionals to take the next step in their career and venture into long format producing. Participants get an in-depth understanding of creative producing, with focused interactive sessions and masterclasses. The residency gives the opportunity to gain valuable insights from home grown case-studies and individual stories and also to build access to a strong community of peers, alumni and industry experts to open new doors.
Participants interact with Industry Experts and craft their own journeys while taking the time to pause, think, and introspect about where they are and where they want to be. Producing as the Next Step has had two successful editions and is now gearing up for a third edition in Monsoon 2024
Scale Up
Scale Up Your Production House is designed to help producers prioritize growth and take their production house to the next level. Across two modules Producers interact with industry leaders and experts, learn from their experiences and receive business strategies, legal and creative advice from the best in the industry. In the in-person module in Mumbai, the focus is on Business strategies, helping producers gain an understanding of structuring finances and demystify what can seem like a complex commercial-legal landscape. In the online module that follows, producers go in-depth into understanding how to build a creative slate, diversifying projects at different stages and financing overheads, pitching the production house and its USP while balancing their personal life and mental health.Ascent
A premium learning and project acceleration program for innovative producers, giving them access to global expertise and resources to optimize their project outcomes. The program has three modules. Module 1 is a 7-day intensive residency program focusing on the key areas of - Creative Producing, Impact Producing, and Positioning. In module 2, Producers deepen their understanding of narrative structures, and their writers are given an opportunity to learn about markets and audience behavior. In the last module, Producers pitch their project to a panel of mentors, industry experts and potential collaborators.
Pitch Perfect
An online programme with global pitching expert Stefano Tealdi, and producers Céline Loop and Mathivanan Rajendran to transform story ideas to a high-impact memorable pitch. A one of a kind opportunity to learn how to build and present an effective pitch for yourself and the project you are  working on. Masterclasses, exercises, discussions and first-hand feedback from mentors and peers to equip producers and creators to make effective oral pitches and design impactful pitch decks.ProducerLAND1
The first residency design by ProducerLAND in 2021.
The residency empowered South Asian producers in early-to-mid stages of their careers to deal with the intricacies of international co-production and bring them at par with producers around the world. Module 1 of the program entailed a 14 day immersive program at Goa, forging deep learning and widened understanding.
In Module 2, participants got a deeper insight into Advanced Co-Productions and Content Development for Episodic Non-fiction producing. Module 3 was a 5 day online pitching workshop followed by a final pitch to a panel of industry leaders.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/on-bindis-drapes-and-indian-cinema ---

On Bindis, Drapes and Indian Cinema | Storiculture Draft
top of pageOn Bindis, Drapes and Indian Cinema02nd June 2023 .  6 min readOver-the-top sarees, designer blouses, heavy gold and silver jewellery, winged kajal and stylish bindis—together form the image of the classic Indian television vamp. Who can forget Komolika’s style in Kasauti Zindagi Ki or Ramola Sikand’s iconic bindis in Kahinn Kissi Roz? Even before we came to know about the storyline of a specific Indian drama series, looking at a character, donning a unique big bindi, used to let us know that the vamp is here. On the other hand, the female protagonist would be shown in a simple saree or a kurti, with jewellery and bindi kept as minimal as possible. While this might not resonate with all Indian television dramas, the persistence of this polarity is true for at least most of them.  Komolika and her iconic bindis in Kasauti Zindagi KiIn Indian cinema, clothing has a major impact on how a character is perceived by the audience and the emotions which are communicated through a particular scene(s). For example, in our minds, chiffon sarees have become the symbol of romance, seduction and sensuality. We have all been mesmerised by the saree-clad looks of Madhuri Dixit and Aishwarya Rai in Devdas (2002) or of Sushmita Sen in Main Hoon Na (2004). Not only sarees but the unforgettable Anarkali look by Madhubala in Mughal-e-Azam (1960) is still considered to be a sign of elegance, grace and beauty
in mainstream fashion and culture.Mesmerizing Saree-clad looks of
Paro (Parvati) and Chandramukhi in DevdasClothing, the colours used and the patterns shown all have a role in making a scene or a film sit tight in the minds of the viewers. From the flowing pallu of Paro (Parvati) in Devdas as she runs through the corridors to reach Dev to the silk-draped looks of Tripti Dimri in and as Bulbbul (2020)—as viewers, we couldn’t seem to ignore the attire of these characters during the entire film. For example: “Bulbbul’s red wedding traditional attire or even her golden silk saree represents the norms, where she doesn’t have much say. Even as a grown-up lady, she is mostly shown in pastel pinks and greens, probably to express the vulnerable and dainty side of the character”. But, when Bulbbul represents Goddess Kali, the colours also change—from pastels to bold ones like blue, purple and red to show her character under a contrasting light.Jewellery has also been employed as a key medium of symbolic communication in and across cinematic works. For example: In the Bengali film, Goynar Baksho (2013), the story revolves around the character, Rashmoni, who was widowed at a young age and starts living with her parents. Having lost the right to fulfil the desire of wearing colourful clothes, Rashmoni “holds on to her jewellery as her only source of happiness”. She becomes obsessed with it and tries to protect it even as a spirit after her death. In this movie, jewellery symbolises a widow’s desire to reclaim her body, liberate herself and cross the rigid boundaries laid in front of her by society.Bulbbul and her tryst with Sarees Rashmoni in Goynar BakhshoBased on Rabindranath Tagore’s novel and directed by Rituparno Ghosh, one of the most brilliant descriptive uses of jewellery can be seen in the Indian Bengali drama film, Chokher Bali (2003). In this film, jewellery symbolises the life of both Binondini and Ashalata—one who is a widow and another, who is a married woman. First, it marks the difference between the life of the two, where one has the right to adorn her body with beautiful necklaces and earrings while the other, cannot do so because she is a widow. Second, jewellery also becomes the reason for the friendship between Ashalata and Binondini. Ashalata lets Bindonini borrow her jewellery and live out her desires, at least in secret. Third, jewellery also marks the start of Binondini’s betrayal as she starts an affair with Ashalata’s husband, Mahendra, in a bid to imagine a life for herself where she can fulfil her desires and live like Ashalata.Cinema reflects societal hierarchy and the customs, beliefs and rituals which are its products. What characters wear and, more importantly—what can or cannot the characters wear is based on their caste, class, gender and circumstances in life. Through clothes and jewellery, the tone and mood of the story are communicated to the audience and, that is an essential component of film-making. Sarees, bindis, jhumkas—all become a part of a character as they give life to the storyline and transition through various scenes to reach the climax. Binondini and Ashalata in Choker Bali "Sabahat Ali Wani is a writer, researcher and artist from Kashmir. She loves to explore the intersection of cinema with gender, identity and politics, and believes that the appreciation of cinema is incomplete without its criticism."The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/asianhorror ---

Asian Horror | Storiculture
top of pageThe specters of Asian Horror CinemaWritten by Sneha Nair
Designed by Yash SaxenaVampires, aliens, and predictable jump scares are not the only kind of horror movies out there.In the Western context, a threatening monster has long been regarded as the defining element of ‘the horror film’.  However, the genre of Asian horror represents more than just creative filmmaking expertise. It is a way for filmmakers to uncover the dark sides of their societies, stand up to socio-political constraints, and communicate the intensity of the anxieties of society in a visceral way.
​
As filmmakers continue innovating in a genre that has become somewhat stale in the West, there only seems to be a rise in consumption for Asian horror.
​What makes Asian horror so terrifying? Is it their multilayered protagonists?These protagonists can range from betrayed sweethearts, resentful children to queer schoolgirls.  The figures often portray fascinating female specters that elicit a range of emotional responses, such as empathy and nostalgia.
​
A closer look at these popular SA horror tropes reveals the deep cultural influences it is based on.
​
Primarily Confucianism Historical
parablesPortrayal
of Women South Asian societies and the ancient tenets of Confucianism share a complicated relationship.Confucianism originated in ancient China, and was formally adopted as a political ideology during the Han dynasty (from 206 B.C. to A.D. 220), whose influence lasted for nearly two millenniums.  It traveled east, first to Korea and then Japan, by means of its own popularity but also the dominance of the Chinese Empire
Confucianism emphasizes loyalty, sacrificing one’s own goals and satisfaction in order to maintain traditional hierarchies and the status quo. So, while Western horrors and thrillers operate with values that say evil is innate and must be purged. In East Asian Horror films rage, revenge, and rebellion is rooted in the breaking of tradition invoking a more complex fear in those who are watching.
Which has led to different kinds of plots for movies like the famous 2016 South Korean hit, Train to Bhusan, or the 2001 J-Horror film, Suicide Club.Ghost films offer potent historical allegories, whether in their narratives or their conditions of production and circulation.Long black hair has often been the mark of monstrous, beautiful femininity, and a prominent trope as seen in hugely popular J-horror movies like Ringu (The Ring) (Japan, 1998) and Juon: The Grudge (Japan, 2003).
The culture surrounding the hair and white attire of female ghosts is taken from traditions where women who die are often dressed in white with their hair let down.
Hindu-Buddhist cosmology and later Islam, include the “‘Pontianak” – known as “kuntilanak” in Indonesia – a carnivorous creature that emerges on the death of a pregnant woman during childbirth and is often represented as a beautiful young woman with a taste for blood. The maternal and infant death rates are particularly high in Southeast Asia. This situation likely led to the belief that many of the ghosts thought to roam the region.
Another common theme that runs across these films is the way in which women ghosts are portrayed - A disproportionately large number of these films revolve around the “vengeful woman” trope. What exactly is it about female subversion that lends itself so well to East Asian cinema?Confucius considered women, in any form, as a part of a different social class than men. Observers of the philosophy often regard women as inferior.
Asian Cinema often borrows from these ideals of Confucianism. The maligned women are victimized for their biological qualities.
And Asian horror cinema becomes the perfect outlet to portray this restrictive idea of femininity. Nothing could be further from the Confucian lady than a woman who terrifies men with her grotesque physique, superhuman strength, and undisguised anger.
In Japan, the concept of ‘Kwaidan’ has lasted for more than 100 years. In all of those stories, there is a socially-oppressed woman, often betrayed by a man, who was a symbol of Japanese society, who comes back to this world to take revenge.How does Asian Horror look now?2017 was the first time that USA box offices saw the horror genre gross over $1 billion! Since then there has been a steady rise in the audience for the genre.
Source : Variety
What happens when you put together the potential for huge profits and a lucrative South Asian market together?
​ Transnational Horror!With top platforms such as Netflix airing addictive shows tailored for a worldwide audience, and investing heavily in Asian content, a new transnational (read: not entirely Asian) horror series like Trese (2021) comes in.
The series is Netflix’s attempt to establish itself as a global streaming media giant with niche appeal in a country that boasts one of the highest percentages of heavy online users in Southeast Asia.
The appeal for fresh stories has led to multiple global hits that have come from Asia. Take for example, the 2017 film Pengabdi Setan (Satan’s Slaves), a loose remake of the namesake 1980 classic by Sisworo Gautama Putra, is Indonesia’s highest-grossing horror film of all time and has been distributed to critical acclaim in 42 countries.
But the crowning achievement of pan-Asian horror and genre cinema came at the end of 2021 with the success of Netflix's apocalyptic South Korean series "Hellbound" (2021) by Yeon Sang-ho. It became the world's most-watched television show on Netflix in a mere 24 hours.
Based on Netflix's weekly lists of its top titles, it was the streamer's No. 5 show of the month and was watched for at least 111 million hours globally.
For Asian horror, this is just the beginning of a storm that is going to take over. The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/constructing-an-anti-caste-aesthetic ---

Constructing an Anti-Caste Aesthetic: | Storiculture Draft
top of page
Constructing an Anti-Caste Aesthetic: Emerging Negotiations on Silver Screen28th Oct 2023 .  6 min readPartly due to its own lack of ideological  sharpness, as well as succumbing to post-Independence pressures of portraying the Indian state as flawlessly plural, the caste question has historically been dealt with in a lukewarm fashion in Indian cinema. Films rarely brought caste to the centrefold, and if they did, then it was through an abstract global humanist lens, awfully limited in dealing with a problem with clear stakeholders. On the rare occasion it chooses to converse with caste issues, Hindi cinema has shown very little spine in providing an incisive lens to the violence of caste relations, and its onus-bearers. Going all the way back to Achhut Kanya (1936), with its template to dilute the complexity of inter-caste relations to merely a plot focused on the story of star-cursed lovers, to Article 15 (2019) with its savarna saviour complex, or Dhadak (2018), with its erasure of caste references in its adaptation from the original Marathi film Sairat (2016) - a web of problematic approaches mar the growth of caste-driven cinema in the Bombay film industry. While caste-based atrocities are not limited to any particular region, the lean towards socially aware cinema is strong in Kollywood. Tamil cinema has often been touted as especially progressive in this domain, owing to its tradition of the self-respect movement and regional peculiarities that place intermediary castes in dominance. This in no way means there are no parallels to its Hindi counterpart in providing cover to reactionary tendencies by way of making caste-critical cinema. Take for example the tradition of elevating the Thevar identity and reinforcing caste-based characteristics by showcasing them as dominant, lordly, aggressive  but generous people.
Exploring these creative choices in discourse and essentialist portrayal and its effects on public consciousness, the documentary ‘The Invisible Other: Caste in Tamil Cinema’ gives a good lay of the land by delving into the rise of identity representation post the 1990s through a regional lens. The speech by the landlord protagonist in Bharathi Kannama (1997) boasting about traits of a ‘real Thevar’' man; the martial image of the community as shown in Thevar Magan (1992) to evoke caste pride bear an all-too-familiar paternalistic gaze. In Sophie Fiennes’ 2005 documentary, The Pervert’s Guide to Cinema, Slavoj Zizek lays out the unconscious hopes and reflections that guide the art of storytelling: “We need the excuse of a fiction to stage what we really are.”In Karnan (2021), religious symbolism is captured as a space to reshape power in the village setting. In its titular reclamation of the demi-god warrior from the Mahabharata, the name Karnan complicates the mythical canon and infuses the narration with a mystical power.
Director Mari Selvaraj represents Podiyankulam’s oppressed community, where the use of a bus stop is prohibited for the villagers, owing to their lower-caste status. The film opens with the fatal tragedy of a little girl succumbing to epilepsy on the side of the road, as buses pass her by. What ensues is an eruption of a violence: self-immolations, beheadings, merciless beatings. Karnan is a film that visualises its exhaustion, and says: we are tired of toning it down for you.
In the last scene, the grandmother looks at Karnan and says in a hard-hitting liner that disrupts the pity narration that follows most top-down approaches: “Our people must never cry again.”
Similarly, Vetrimaaran’s Asuran (2019), is a stellar addition to this new tradition of shifting narrations.  The story follows the life-drama of Sivasamy (Dhanush), a Dalit man who avenges a death in his family in a gripping tale of caste-violence that powerfully brings into focus the hegemony of land-owning caste groups in Tamil Nadu’s villages. Based on Sahitya Akademi award winner Poomani’s novel Vekkai, the movie deals with panchami land rights — allotment of land to lower-caste groups during colonial rule, that could not be re-classified or transferred to others.
The centrality of land in film has slowly been picking up traction, especially in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. This is helpful in evolving a much-needed material perspective to the more abstract discrimination in cinematic works, exposing the socioeconomic structures that act as a backbone to caste-pride and semi-feudal hierarchies in India.Instead of adapting the family-drama novel as a boilerplate revenge thriller, the director takes the creative liberty of infusing caste atrocities in the dynamic. It shows the character arc of a patient, peace-loving father who believes in legal means of justice, pushed to the brink in the aftermath of his son’s murder, having exhausted the righteousness at his disposal. By tilting the film ‘Asura’ - Vetri Maaran also harkens back to Ambedkarite reclamation of the misrepresented histories of asuras and rakshasas, analogizing the depressed classes, the dispossessed tribes. By reversing the aesthetics of the creatures deemed as the embodiment of evil, the film makes an effort to invent an aesthetic that would spur semiotic reinterpretation of the perennial fight between good and evil in dominant religious discourse.Constructing an oppositional aesthetic angle also means to convey the full force of unadulterated emotions on camera, not trying to overlay unification of antagonist forces for the sake of ‘resolving’ plotlines. The unforgettable Fandry (2013), which marks Nagraj Manjule’s debut in Maharashtrian cinema, shows Jabya’s character hurling stones at his tormentors and blacking out the camera lens in the end. The twelve-year-old protagonist, belonging to the Kaikadi community (who are expected to tend to pig-rearing work) explodes in anger against the humiliation borne by his people. In the unflinching climax to the film, his outburst emotes generational anger reaching a breaking point.
Another hidden gem is the short film Sadgati (1981), translating to Deliverance, that tells the story of Dukhi (played by Om Puri), who is a tanner hoping to get the village priest to bless his daughter’s wedding. After extracting free labour from him all day in exchange for this ‘favour’, without so much as a lunch break, the Brahmin Priest Ghashiram  finds the untouchable lying dead in front of his house porch, having collapsed under the strain of woodcutting for hours on end. Satyajit Ray’s masterful direction, involving little to no dialogues, with prolonged and detailed camera focus, creates a rawness that is both spectacular and haunting.There are several films that have pushed the envelope in a no-holds-barred approach to caste-critical filmmaking. Names such as Pa Ranjith, Manjule, Neeraj Ghaywan have helped in foregrounding Dalit filmmaking in the production end, but attitudinal shift needs to be an pan-industry effort. However, there are several typecast practices that need to be abolished for more rooted portrayals of the DBA experience. These include avoiding direct references to caste backgrounds in films, not giving proportionate screen time for the lower-caste characters in favour of agency or more layered character developments, and very commonly: bringing in class as a stand-in for a problem that isn’t simply economical but involves social humiliation. Representation is not a checklist that will automatically resolve issues which need to go through a thorough revision in aspects such as: the vantage points we take, the cinematic choices we employ, the aesthetic decisions we take while devising an anti-caste script. Cinema helps in constructing identities and structures, it can be equally powerfully as a site of resistance and demolition of the unjust burdens being carried on a select few shoulders.
Yusra Khan is a writer and digital policy enthusiast based between Lucknow and Delhi. Her interests are versatile, but she is particularly fascinated by the intersection of politics, labour and technology studies.
Currently, she works at Nvidia as a prompt-writing specialist, bringing human creativity to AI-generated outputs. A film addict since childhood, she is rumored to have rewatched Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na over sixty eight times till date, and doesn't plan to stop.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/what-the-fog-hides-in-kohrra ---

What the Fog Hides in Kohrra | Storiculture Draft
top of pagewhat the
fog hidesWritten By Purvai AranyaReading Sudip Sharma's
KohrraWarning: this review contains spoilers.5th Feb 2024 .  6 min readMurder mystery show Kohrra (translation: fog) (2023) begins in a field shrouded in morning fog. These fields of Punjab play a recurrent role in this series that is deeply rooted in the geography it is set in. One of the writers spent 15 years in the region shooting for a documentary, so the creators’ access to authenticity is clear as the show unfolds. The fog is an apt metaphor for mystery: it prevents you from seeing clearly until you get close enough. It hides large objects/truths from you in seemingly plain sight. It is not the first time the foggy fields of Punjab are being used as a visual motif to explore the gritty cultural reality of the state – Gurvinder Singh’s Anhey Ghorhe da Daan (“Alms for a Blind Horse”) comes to mind. The fog invites us in even as it conceals the field from us. The absence predicated in the blankness of the fog is an important character in this story: it is what the investigators can’t see because of their own blind spots. The fog in the first scene doesn’t conceal the couple having sex in the field. Through the fog, we can hear the incessant barking of a dog. The woman, who doesn’t seem to be enjoying herself, asks the young man in Punjabi what he’s doing, and then asks him to hurry up. She has a class to go to. In unexpected tenderness, he asks her to sing for him. “Have you gone mad? A song today too?”, she asks, exasperated. The barking continues, until the man gets up in anger, to go beat the dog into silence. It can be argued that this is what the show is about: interrupted intimacies and the almost helpless anger of men. The woman pleads and screams and follows him: the barking leads them to a dead body in the fields, a remnant of the night’s thick fog. The central question of the murder mystery has been laid out.The rest of the show follows the two policemen protagonists, Balbir Singh and Garundi, as they try to uncover the double fold mystery: the murder of Paul, an NRI about to be married, and his missing best friend. Unlike the usual snappy pace of murder mysteries, this show moves slowly, focusing on relationships, conversations, and entanglements. It quickly seems like the mystery being solved isn’t just the murder we’ve been confronted with, but the entirety of the foggy landscape of Punjab.  Though the story begins after the murder has taken place, there is violence embedded in nearly every scene. And since there is no singular easy path to the resolution of the mystery at hand, each of the violent threads is followed to find reasons, histories, and explanations. The absence at the heart of the movie turns out to be the queerness that was given no space in this cultural landscape to survive, let alone thrive.All of the characters have to grapple with the violence of the particular patriarchy that is found here. The masculine, aggressive landscape of Punjab is the background and foreground of everything that happens. This is a show about men’s interactions and negotiations with one another, skills they seem to have never been taught. They are all suffering under the burden of masculinity, which is why the intimacies they do create feel so heartwarming. When Balbir Singh and Garundi have long conversations by the fireside, it feels like a warm, present reminder that vulnerability and intimacy are possible, even for them. But in daylight, back at the police station or in Balbir Singh’s own home, both these men package up their gentleness and beat other men viciously. It seems to be the duty of the women, as well as the audience, to constantly have to witness the anger of men. Despite that, the women in the show (like the women in life) constantly find ways to assert their agency, even if it means attempting suicide, like Balbir Singh’s daughter Nimrat. She leaves her husband for no reason other than lovelessness, an act that society and her father cannot begin to comprehend. And when no other doorway seems open, she tries to take her own life. When she fails, she uses the opportunity to say the things to her father that he would never be able to hear otherwise, thus opening up new possibilities for herself and her life. The ideal family lives only in posed photos. Reality is jagged and burdened with the past.
The first episode ends on a happy montage of the engagement between the victim, Paul, and Veera, his wife-to-be. The photos and videos create a perfect mirage: a family in perfect Indian clothes, dancing together, celebrating the institution that holds this entire social structure together. Outside of the framed images, the family is full of cracks and splinters: possible murder suspects are the bride-to-be, as well as the victim’s uncle and his son. The victim’s father is accused of being the real culprit by the women in the family at the end since it is his inability to accept his son’s queerness that caused the disasters the characters are reeling from. The mirage of family is only held up by their unspoken promise to each other – that they will keep each other’s secrets. That promise is brought to test under the relentless questioning of the police and the media. There are many kinds of families in this show, all tied together by that same promise: Garundi has a strange but tender sexual and romantic arrangement with his sister-in-law, a truck driver who accidentally hit Liam has a younger apprentice called Toti whom he is attached to. All these relationships become dependent on the upholding of convenient narratives. But inconvenient narratives have
a way of emerging from the fog.
While this show shows us the shadows of rural and urban Punjab with a sharp look at the cultural underpinnings behind all murders and mysteries, it remains unable to move past the dominant stories of the men on screen. While cultural realities remain stark, the creator of media always has agency in where they point their camera and which stories are highlighted. In Kohrra, we see the endlessly replayed violence of men towards each other, towards women, towards people of lower classes, and towards themselves. While the show points towards the existence of alternate masculinities by showing us a glimpse of queerness, to place that queerness in the keyhole of the mystery is a cop-out. Since the suspense about the mystery must remain, the queerness is hidden from the audience until the last possible minute, and then we are shown a single scene of intimacy between Paul and Liam, at the desperate moment where Liam ends up attacking Paul. Queer cultural commentators have been speaking for years about the futility of only seeing queer characters on screen who end up dying or being viciously killed. Where are our visions of queer and female futures and presents where alternate ways of life thrive on screen, or at least find a way to survive oppressive environments? The answer to the mystery remains unsatisfactory, since instead of a singular culprit, we find the fog has killed two people. The fog in which a bus accidentally hit Liam after he killed his lover, and the metaphorical fog of outdated and rigid cultural beliefs that made their relationship unviable in the first place.Almost as soon as the dead body is discovered at the start of the show, the media arrives, frothing at the mouth. Everything in this day and age is for an audience. This is a story about violence and intimacy, touch and desire, as much as it is about witnessing, both public and private. The media crowd is so thick it conceals the father of the victim, but Balbir Singh and the audience are both compelled to hear the father’s screams of pain when he finds out. It is often Balbir Singh’s role through the movie to witness the pain of families dealing with loss and uncertainty – and know that he has been tasked with fixing this pain by discovering the cause of it, and by preventing such future pain. But he is hardly equipped to take on this task. Sudip Sharma, the creator of the show, has been exploring in multiple shows the liminal space between society and lawlessness that policemen inhabit. He calls them “fascinating characters sitting on the cusp of crime and civilization.” But they are rooted staunchly in the society they are brought up in, and their prejudices determine what kind of justice they are able to enact.References used: -
https://www.mansworldindia.com/currentedition/from-the-magazine/the-interview-the-kohrra-creators/
https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/sudip-sharma-dissects-his-own-cop-universe-of-pataal-lok-kohrra-101688817580156.html
The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/insights ---

Insights | Storiculture Draft
top of pageInterviews
Interview with Tanaji Dasgupta6 min Read.  June 2024The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/tanaji-dasgupta ---

Tanaji Dasgupta | Storiculture Draft
top of pageJune 2024
Tanaji DasguptaTanaji Dasgupta is a producer, filmmaker and actor based in Kolkata. He is the writer and producer of The Hungry - an adaptation of William Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus which was  funded by Film London and Cinestaan Film Company.
He is also the producer of Ronny Sen’s Cat Sticks. He is the co-founder of Kindling Pictures along Kiran Rao which has recently produced Laapataa Ladies, an indie dramedy that has created waves both in theaters and on OTT. ProducerLAND spoke to Tanaji Dasgupta about his experience as a producer on the film, what goes into making a film without a star cast, and his hopes for the future of independent films in India. In conversation with Céline Loop and Pankhuri ZaheerHow did this film come to you?
The journey of the film started in 2018 when Biplab Goswami pitched the story at the Cinestaan Script Contest and secured the second prize. Aamir Khan was one of the judges for that contest and really liked the story and expressed his interest to produce it. Kiran Rao then came on board as the director. Since she was directing again after a long time, this was also very exciting. Kiran called me when they were ready to  begin pre-production. After  I was formally brought on board,we were looking at further polishing the script as well as  casting, location recces and securing  department heads. What was your contribution to the story as a producer?
Not much. The story was already written by Biplab Goswami, and then Sneha Desai had written a couple of drafts of the screenplay before I came on board..
With regards to the script, my involvement was shaped by understanding what Kiran (Rao) wanted in terms of further polishing the script and helping that happen. We brought on board another writer called Divyanidhi Sharma to work on the dialogues and characterization of certain characters.How involved were you in the casting process? Was it always understood that the script demanded non-known faces as protagonists?
The casting process was guided by both Aamir (Khan) Sir and Kiran. They always wanted  to find the right actors for the characters rather than hiring well known names from the industry. We brought on board a casting director called Romil Modi who has previously worked on Sherni and Newton. Both those films had a very good balance of local actors  and known faces like Vidya Balan and Rajkumar Rao. I must say that even though looking for the perfect actors for our characters was challenging, it is incredibly rewarding to work with actors who bring something completely new to the table.How much time did it take to finish the audition process? Approximately how many actors did you audition before finalizing the cast? What order were Pratibha, Sparsh and Nitanshi cast in?
Around 6-8 months. I'm not sure about the exact number of actors that were auditioned but Romil and his team auditioned actors for every single character in the film. They even went to the villages in MP where we shot the film to audition and cast local actors.How does one budget for a film like Laapataa Ladies?
Budgeting is crucial for a film like ours with no stars and we had  to keep it under a reasonable amount. A big hurdle for us was shooting at train stations which turned out to be quite expensive. Additionally, because this was a rural story, we couldn't shoot in Bombay. Hence, the travel, boarding and lodging automatically became a significant part of the budget. One of the biggest challenges that we faced was the pandemic. Our DOP got COVID the day before we were leaving for the shoot. We had to create an expensive setup using which the DOP could look at the frames in the monitor from his apartment in Mumbai. In addition to all this, we also created a bubble for all the extras and that cost money.How and when did Jio Studios come on board as a partner on the film, and were there other partners in the film’s marketing and distribution strategy ?
We were at an advanced stage of the film’s editing when Jio Studios came on board. Aamir Khan Productions was showing it to suitable studio partners for distribution and Jio Studios joined the team as a marketing and distribution partner and the journey afterwards was very collaborative. Our other partners were Spice PR who handled the PR for the film. And One Hand Clap ran the social media campaign for the film. T-Series was our music partner.
Marketing for a film like ours has to be cost effective. Since we had a tight budget we needed to be very creative in how to spend that money. My main job in this whole exercise was not so much coming up with marketing strategies, there were more qualified people to do that. My job was to protect the film and make sure the best creative assets were going out. Can you speak about the theatrical vs. OTT release ?
We are living in times where our audience knows that sooner or later the film is going to come to an OTT platform. So the reason to go to a theater has to be different. Just generating interest for the film is not enough.
In this regard, Laapataa Ladies has had a good experience. We are very happy, after an 8 week run, we were still hearing about full houses on weekends and people applauding in the theaters. But to be honest, smaller films doing a good theatrical run,  is a larger question. From the theatrical run to OTT, you have an eight week window right now. Could the OTTs be ready to increase that time frame, so one could get more time for the word of mouth campaigns, even with a small number of screens? Which brings us to Netflix. Could you tell us when the Netflix deal happened?
The very experienced folks at Jio Studios handled this. They were looking into digital and satellite rights. Netflix came on board in January this year (2024). Earlier we had a release date of 5th Jan and it's only after Netflix came on board that we shifted the release date to 1st March, to make sure that the OTT release is not too far away from the theatrical release.Films are rarely being bought by OTT platforms without a successful theatrical release. Did your experience on Laapataa Ladies give you hope to repeat this model?
I think overall there’s a lot of hope. The learning is to be as contained within the budget as possible. For theatrical releases, one has to rely on more grassroot screenings to build word of mouth before the film actually releases and it starts counting. Testing the film with an audience is really important before you make your release strategy, because a theatrical release might not be the best strategy for all films. It has been so lovely to get to know that Laapataa Ladies now has more views on Netflix than several big budget films? What do you think is the reason for this?
I really think the film just connected with people and families in a deep way. It's rare to come across heartwarming films these days and that has struck a real chord with many people. There is also a simplicity in the film that makes it accessible for everyone. It's amazing that we got a theatrical boost after the release on Netflix and the film is still playing in theaters 3 months after the release!Has something stayed with you from making Laapata Ladies that you will take forward to your next projects?
All of it! It has just been one of the most fun and important films that I have done. And the kind of response you get from people watching it in theaters is addictive. I would certainly like to have more films released in theaters because it's a different kind of impact and resonance that you get, which I've experienced for the first time and I love it.Laapataa Ladies is now streaming on Netflix, IndiaThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/nayanika ---

Nayanika | Talent at Storiculture World
top of pageNayanika Chatterjee
Nayanika is an animator, illustrator, and storyteller from India. She is a recent animation graduate at the Royal College of Art in London. Nayanika is one of the ten awardees of the Black British and POC Grant 2021.
​
She pursued a BA in political science after which her interest in social and political narratives grew as a Fellow at the Young India Fellowship at Ashoka University. She created photo stories, documentaries, and animated news explainers as a multimedia journalist at ThePrint. in. She has worked as a motion graphics designer for advertising campaigns.
​
She has been featured on Gal-Dem, Content Free, and Homegrown. in. She is also a contributing author-illustrator for a graphic novel anthology by RCA students called ‘Sanitiser on Toast’.
​
In her free time, she loves to annoy her dog, Stark and attempts impossible CrossFit workouts.PortfolioUnder the Rug
(Animated Film)
Going home
(Comic)
Pooja is Calling
(Online Campaign)There's a Bully in my head
(Comic Strip)Sanitizer on Toast
(Graphic Novel Anthology)The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/root-ax ---

ROOT.AX | Accelerator
top of page A Transmedia Accelerator for Bold & Original Creators from South Asia.
100% VIRTUAL | IMMERSIVE | PERSONALISED
ABOUT
root.ax is an accelerator designed to dramatically maximize the potential of your media projects through mentorship, networks & financial support.
​
Working across film, series, audio, journalism, art & culture, we position your projects to the audience & industry, deepen its impact, and extend its IP across formats.
​
All this while fostering what makes it most valuable: you, the creator.
PAST COHORTS
A space for building
Impactful Immersive Experiences.
Dates TBDAre you a Creator exploring the realm of Immersive Experiences and engrossing Multimedia worlds (VR, AR, XR, Live Installations, Performing Arts)?
​
What is it?
A Virtual Cohort focussed on supporting and expanding the potential of immersive experiences built around art, entertainment, tech, and important social causes.
IMMERSE aims to bring together a community of South Asian artists and creators and build impactful Immersive Experiences that can be sustainable in the long run. IMMERSE will help elevate and execute your experience through a series of workshops, curated meetings, and peer reviews by fellow creators.
Application
To apply, please fill out this form.
Deadline: July 5th, 2022IMMERSE
EXPLOREAre you a Female South Asian nonfiction writer/journalist who's interested
in new media formats?
​
Do you have a mountain of source material that is going
nowhere beyond the one article?
​
Does your work focus on culture, technology, gender & identity?
​
What is it?
A 5 day Virtual LAB focussed on expanding your nonfiction/long form reportage piece into a specific new media outcome like, but not limited to, film, series, podcast and new media.
​
GROW lab is designed with a mix of Masterclasses & Peer Review sessions for 8 applicants from South Asia, culminating into a story proposal & a real-time pitching opportunity with the potential for story development & IP expansion
​
Application
To apply or to nominate someone fill out this form.Adapting Non-fiction for a Multi-Modal Future
27th-31st May, 2022We think of every knowledge creator as a startup, only better.
We know it's tough to define a knowledge creator, so let us give you a sense of who we would like to work with: an Academic constructing a virtual museum on Instagram, an AI influencer debating big tech on Substack, two writers building a Wellness Podcast, a Tech startup amplifying creators in the metaverse, a music aficionado creating a music community, a historian retelling events through graphic novels - if you are a creator building bold & original media around topics which you believe have a growing audience and a strong impact on the world, we would like to hear from you.
​
You can also be a creator working in our focus areas Women & Money | Young Adults | Sports.
​
What do you get?
We're an accelerator. We want to help you build a viable business as a creator by growing your audience, developing strong IP and multimodal expressions, collaborations with artists, specialised mentorship, finding the right financial partnership and creating a strong social impact with your knowledge.
​
Application
Application to our KNOW Design Sprint is by nomination. If you would like to be nominated, register your interest here.A Design Sprint for Knowledge Creators
Dates TBDOur MAKE programs are for creators who want to work on their craft and dive deeper into their projects.
For our first-ever MAKE program - MAKE a Myth we are turning our focus to the world of Genre Cinema.
MAKE a Myth is A Genre Lab for Horror, Fantasy and Mythological films
where 8 writers & creative producers can hone the skills necessary to create impactful Genre Cinema. Every project will attend a series of meetings with Script Consultants, Genre specialists, Artists & Producers with special attention on world building, character development & writing for multi-modal IP development.
In a final culmination of the program, you will present your project through curated meetings to industry delegates & decision makers.MAKE a Myth
Who is MAKE A MYTH for?
We are here for writers, directors and creative producers who are involved with Genre projects in Early Development across South Asia.
Application
Application to MAKE A MYTH is by nomination only.
If you would like to be nominated register your interest hereLab Dates (Virtual):
28th February - 4th March
Follow up sessions in March & MayOur BRIDGE programs are for creators who want to shape a distinct identity for their projects and gain greater visibility in the industry.
For our first-ever BRIDGE program - South BRIDGE we invited creators from South India with projects at an advanced stage of development across film and series originating from Kerala, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu (and the diaspora).
​
Candidates were taken through a series of sessions with special attention paid to audience understanding, pitching & positioning. In a final culmination of the program, projects were presented through curated meetings to industry delegates & decision makers.
South BRIDGE
Application
Application to South BRIDGE is now closed.
If you would like to be waitlisted for any of our future cohorts register your interest here
FEES & FUNDINGWe understand that the development phase of any media project is the most challenging. If you are invited to attend the accelerator you will have the choice to pay the fees upfront or we will invest the fees of the program on your behalf which will be recoupable upon the project being greenlit.root.ax
ON DEMANDA program customised for publishers, platforms and studios
to work seamlessly with an international network of mentors and a community of creators with best-in-class creative development tools and processes.
The core of our offering rests in Identifying Story – Audience fit for Content, Creating IP extension strategies and Impact design based on audience affinity.
for more details contact mathivanan@thestoriculturecompany.comConnect with usThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/the-politics-of-transgressive-horror ---

The Politics of Transgressive Horror | Storiculture Draft
top of pageThe Politics of Transgressive Horror21th Oct 2023 .  6 min readHorror is a genre that enables the suspension of rational techniques of storytelling due to its transcendental nature. It lends itself easily to symbolic meaning-making and epic metaphorical language, while enhancing the scope of social commentary veiled in mystery and intrigue. From the nocturnal wanderings of the condemned to eons of myth-making wrapped into neat storylines - the world of Indian horror is as diverse as it is terrifying.
For decades, Indian horror movies have disproportionately focused on the psychosexual anxieties about the innate evil that resides within the feminine body. Plot devices that associated women’s sexuality as a magnate for evil forces (Ragini MMS, 2007), the return of the dead for vengeance (Stree, 2018), ghosts of old-lovers-torn-apart (Bhool Bhulaiyaa, 2007) have been popular. From Kamal Amrohi’s Mahal (1949), to Vikram Bhatt’s 1920 (2008), the general formula has been to combine tragic love plots with the demonic force of the female. The possession or haunting is often followed by exorcist rituals employing religious symbolism carried out by an occultist or a caste priest, reinforcing the inherent power of divinity to resolve the ‘unknown’ or ‘irrational’ in the human realm. For a short stretch of time, the likes of Raaz (2002), Hisss (2010), Alone (2015) gained momentum in the low-effort sub-genre of soft porn masquerading as genuine horror. The intertwining of female sexuality and fear does not bode well without layered representations, for it can enable a lens of the “monstrous-feminine” quality of picturization. This is a concept given by  Barbara Creed that refers to the role of gender in the construction of monstrosity; moving beyond victimhood or subservience in classic horror, towards a Freudean framework where the male fear of castration is palpable due to shifting power dynamics. The traversing of conventional morality by the non-paranormal woman and the fear of the “otherworldly” woman’s ability to destabilize the normal has interesting intersections. However, recently, other trends have taken over.This push towards bringing more parochial narratives in Indian horror movie culture is an ambition we need to dissect with care. In order to avoid the deepening of surviving superstitions, movies need to steer clear of climaxes that get resolved primarily through conservative methods or without a call to disarm ourselves of archaic notions of power. Infusing an “indigenous flavour” does not have to necessarily make stories about salvation through reliance on myths, illusions, the not-so-harmless old wives’ tales passed down from generations. By turning towards the form that religion takes in people’s lives rather than its exclusivity over the supernatural entity’s redemption is a good start. Recent envisionings have made a head start towards avoiding these outdated tropes, to their merit.
Set in twentieth-century Maharashtra, the folk-horror film by Rahi Anil Barve, Tumbadd (2018), tells the story of an ancestral fortune guarded by a sinister monster. Tying together themes around caste-greed, godly wraths and familial ties, it carves a space for showing regional dynamics and localizing the genre. Marginalized identities and the genre of horror films have an interesting dynamic psychologically as well. The lingering fear that pervades a good horror flick is not unlike the everyday realities of those among us who live in precarity - be it social, physical, psychological or financial. Horror can also serve as a safe space through which one can process long-suppressed fear, often bringing parallels by establishing the familiar (the home, the spouse, the family village) as the primary site of terror. While research on the genre’s ability to inculcate critical empathy through visceral fear and paranormal abuse is limited, it opens up new avenues for generation of social commentary.
Think of the parallels between a person traumatized through intergenerational abuse (Pari, 2018), or about entire communities decimated for the gains of capital (Betal, 2020). Pari humanizes the demon-blooded woman, disoriented by the trauma she has undergone by shifting its gaze towards Auladhchakra, the satanic cult that summons the devil to rape women and perpetuate its bloodline. It creates a background to her ‘madness’ as a possessed victim vying for some semblance of normality, of love. The strange combination of her vulnerability and terror-inducing antics make for a textured cinematic representation of complex trauma. It also does well to introduce multidimensionality to the revenge-seeking trope that is supposed to deliver catharsis. Betal, on the other hand investigates the violence against indigenous communities and the legacies of colonial-style capitalist expansion in a far-off village. The zombie horror thriller series explores not just the realm of the living dead (where the counter-insurgency units’ barracks are protected through the Indian tadka of turmeric, ashes and salt - to ward them off), but also the corpses mounting at the expense of the state’s excess in resource-rich regions of the country. While critics have rightfully deemed the four-part Netflix series as convoluted and woefully underwritten, the postcolonial scholar Johan Höglund has argued that the “zombie pandemic that erupts in Betaal is an attempt to render the apocalyptic violence and death that unregulated capitalism performs on ecology and precarious communities.”
A fine example of straddling between these ideas is the comedic horror movie Makdee (2002), a masterclass in dispelling tropes and combining elements of horror to local adaptations that drive home change in an innovative way. A simple backstory (the local witch residing in a haunted mansion) combined with a hilarious twist that delivers a social message styled as a gut-punch to unshackle the plot. Without meaning to, it also carried an implicit messaging that brought a rationalist bent to the film’s ending. In a country where we have the ability to reach uncharted lunar territories, we still have states that partake in witch-hunting practices. While there is definitely a place for action-horror and formulaic survivalist visions within the genre, social critique has carved a unique space of its own in this arena. Between the spectrum of calculated jump-scares and social introspection through the camera, there is a whole lot of space waiting to be filled.
Yusra Khan is a writer and digital policy enthusiast based between Lucknow and Delhi. Her interests are versatile, but she is particularly fascinated by the intersection of politics, labour and technology studies.
Currently, she works at Nvidia as a prompt-writing specialist, bringing human creativity to AI-generated outputs. A film addict since childhood, she is rumored to have rewatched Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na over sixty eight times till date, and doesn't plan to stop.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/ipclinic ---

Deepdive | IP Clinic
top of pageIP Clinic6-8 November 2023A 3 day immersive online programme with law and media experts Amshula Prakash and Céline Loop. Gain a practical understanding of IP Law, be part of insightful peer discussions and get firsthand advice and feedback from industry experts.Apply nowFAQThis programme will give you insights into IP law and equip you with important tools that are essential at every step of your producing career.Lawyer Amshula Prakash and Producer-Lawyer Céline Loop will personally take you into understanding IP law and copyrights in India. They will dive into participants' IP concerns, engaging in discussions throughout the programme to address them head-on. Who is it for?What you getDemystification of the complex world of IP LawTailored insights and solutions to IP related queries or issues
Any Producer looking to have an understanding of IP law - focus on copyright
​
We recommend that applicants come to the workshop with specific IP related queries and concerns
ExpertsAmshula Prakash is a media, technology and entertainment lawyer with several years of experience. She has worked with some of India’s biggest production houses, directors, writers, musicians, actors, digital media companies and advertising agencies in addition to advising start-ups across sectors.Céline Loop is an IP lawyer from Belgium who found herself at the forefront of independent Indian cinema fifteen years ago. She has produced 7 feature films, co-produced many more and has traveled to festivals across the world. She believes in empowering creative producers with all the required tools and understanding IP law. She is also the programme director of ProducerLAND.From valuing source material to packaging your Project for the world, IP will be with you every step of the way.
Céline Loop, Lawyer and Producer,
Mentor IP Clinic
​FeesThe fee of the online programme is INR 17,000 plus 18% GST. As seats are limited, we encourage you to secure your spot early and become part of a cohort of bold producers who are equipped to take on all IP related challenges.
​
If you are an alumni of any of ProducerLAND’s programmes, we’re happy to reduce the fee by 25% for you or anyone you would like to recommend for IP clinic.FAQBefore applying, please read our FAQ section.
If you have any questions and queries, reach out to Deepthi Pendurty at
deepthipendurty@thestoriculturecompany.com
​Get ahead of the curve as our experts Amshula Prakash and Celine Loop tackle your IP queries and concerns and demystify the complex world of IP law for you.Apply nowApplications close on 25 October 2023​The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/identities-and-intersections-in-cinema ---

Identities and Intersections
in Cinema | Storiculture Draft
top of pageIdentities and Intersections
in Cinema14th March 2023 .  6 min readIdentities form the nucleus of story-telling in cinematic spaces; however, the construction and depiction of the same requires to be true to the figures it claims to represent and aware of. The portrayal of identities in and through cinema, not only reflects the society we live in but also the biases within the cinematic circles. Why can't Aladdin be a White man? Why do we need a Black Ariel? Why representation matters but not at the expense of hijacking the community’s narratives? Why accent is a big deal?— many more questions arise when
one looks at the convergence of cinema with identities.BackBut, what is the importance of talking about the intersection of identity with cinema? The answer to this question is not the same across the board. Abhijit Naskar in The Film Testament (2017) writes that one should “use filmmaking to eliminate racism—use it to terminate misogyny—use it to destroy homophobia and all other primitiveness”; hence, painting a picture of cinema where it has the potential to transform society. Most people agree on the nature of cinema to influence and get itself influenced by several factors as the result of the existing cultural feedback loop. However, Russell Sharma, Author of Moving Pictures: An Introduction to Cinema (2020), writes, “...cinema remains more effective at re-affirming a particular view of the world than challenging or changing it. That is to say, it is an inherently conservative medium”. Further, he elaborates that one of the problems here is “the economic reality that cinema must appeal to the masses to survive. It costs a lot of money to make a feature film or tv series. So, filmmakers and their financiers tend to avoid offending our collective sensibilities. They want us to buy more tickets and pay more streaming fees, so they’re going to err on the side of making us feel better about who we already think we are”.In the context of South Asian cinema, the identities and the representation of the same on the screen have been the product of socio-political changes. For example: in post-colonial South Asian cinema, there is an evident connection between the themes of gender and national identity. This includes “the portrayal of women in the films of Satyajit Ray and Ritwik Ghatak, the mother-goddess construct of Indian nationalism in mainstream cinema, thematic treatments of the relationship between machismo and Hindu/Muslim revivalism, and gender and Muslim identity in the cinema of Bangladesh and Pakistan”. And, together these constructions “offer a fluid approach to the multiple histories and encounters that conjure “South Asia” as a geographic and political entity in the region and globally through a cinematic imagination”. There are many South Asian films which either reaffirm the societal hierarchies or challenge them. For example: Agraharathil Kazhuthai (1977), which translates to ‘A donkey in a Brahmin’s village’, is a satirical work that “doubles as a stark reflection of caste-hierarchy and a socio-political satire that challenges the system all at once”. In this film, a stray donkey “wrecks havoc in a Brahmin neighbourhood, agitating its caste-rigid citizens”. The first film shot in Afghanistan after the collapse of the Taliban, titled, Osama (2003) gives the audience a glimpse at the life and identity of Afghan women under the oppressive regime. The primary aim of this movie is to show how “underneath the Taliban’s iron fist, the justification of “respect” for women was used to sentence them to a lifetime of inhumane physical and mental agony. This is not how a society that values and appreciates women would treat them”.
Another film, Salim Langde Pe Mat Ro (Don’t Cry for Salim the Lame), 1989, is the story of a young Muslim man named Salim who leads a life of crime and takes no steps to walk on a moral path because of the “conditions surrounding his life”. This film by Saeed Akhtar Mirza captures the reality of the Muslim minorities living in India’s urban spaces. Simply put, this story highlights the “issues of belonging, cultural citizenship, and identity in modern India in relation to the overpowering hegemonic discourse of a monolithic India and points out how a privileged meta-narrative of nationhood overwrites local narratives thereby marginalising the cultural life of its minority groups”. Cinema does not exist in a vacuum and is itself a boiling bubbling brew of intersections. What is the story about? Where is it based? Who has written the story? What is its primary aim? Who is involved in the film-making? Who is playing the protagonist/antagonist?
What stereotype is the film mitigating or, reinforcing?—and, many such aspects decide the identity of a film as a whole, which can either suit the taste buds of a larger audience or disrupt the status quo. "Sabahat Ali Wani is a writer, researcher and artist from Kashmir. She loves to explore the intersection of cinema with gender, identity and politics, and believes that the appreciation of cinema is incomplete without its criticism."The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/powerupyourproductionhouse ---

Deepdive | Power Up Your Production House
top of pagePower UpYour Production House27-30 November 2023ProducerLAND brings to you an in-person residency in Mumbai to help you supercharge your growth and scale up your production company!Apply nowFAQOver 4 days we will break down various aspects of the business, help you gain an understanding of structuring your finances, demystify what can seem like a complex business-commercial-legal landscape and help you chart the path to achieve short and long term goals of your business and identity.Power Up Participants will  interact with industry leaders and experts, learn from their experiences and receive first hand game-changing advice. One-on-One SessionsAs a special follow up to the residency, participants will get the opportunity to attend one-on-one sessions to address individual solutions and growth paths. These sessions will be led by industry experts Siddarth Punjabi (Business Consultant and Investment Strategist, E Y) and Anil Arjun (CEO, The Storiculture Company).Who is it for?Producers with a Production House that is at least one year old.What you getFirst-hand industry knowledge that is directly applicable to your company and projectsA clear understanding of the next steps for your companyOne-on-one
sessionsAn opportunity to network and build a community with our curated cohort and other ProducerLAND alumniExpertsShibasish Sarkar serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of International Media Acquisition Corp. He has extensive experience of over 27 years in the media industry and has been handling multiple verticals across films, television, animation, gaming content and operations of digital and new media platforms. He is also the Group CEO at Reliance Entertainment, a member of the senior leadership team of Reliance ADA Group and has served as a director on the board of various Reliance ADA Group companies. He is a pioneer in producing digital content with clients across major OTT and TV Video-On-Demand platforms. Shibasish has set up a marquee roster of showrunners and directors, delivering shows worth $22 million in the preceding 24 months with an aggregate value in the pipeline of approximately $80 million.Vinay Emmanuel is a distinguished professional with over 20 years experience in diverse environments across varied industries where he has been instrumental in conceptualising and implementing ERP, HRIS, MIS dashboards and KPIs. His forte lies in setting up Operations, devising Financial Workflows of Start-Ups and contributing to their overall growth strategy.
He is Managing Partner at P Sivaramakrishnan & LLP, a leading Chartered Accountancy firm that specialises in the Media & Entertainment Industry where they manage and provide Set up & Incorporation Services, Tax advisory, Tax Litigation, Production Accounting Services, Periodic & Annual regulatory compliances, Virtual CFO Services.Kavitha Vijay heads the IC Universal Legal’s Chennai office & has been with the office since its inception, spearheading its growth from start to the large multi-disciplinary team of reputation & ranking that it is in Chennai. As one of the First Partners of the firm, she has been instrumental in building and establishing the practice areas, specialisations & work style of the firm. Equipped with varied experience across diverse sectors, her focus is M&A, private equity & joint ventures. She also advises on corporate & regulatory requirements, infrastructure, real estate & finance sector, fintech, agritech, etc. Celine Loop is an IP lawyer from Belgium who found herself at the forefront of independent Indian cinema fifteen years ago. Céline has backed several unconventional and standout indie projects which have travelled to major global festivals. She has produced 7 feature films and co-produced many more. She is also the Program Director of ProducerLAND- South Asia's first-ever advanced learning & network development programme for Film Producers.Anil Arjun is the CEO of The Storiculture Company. He has spent several years in the corporate sector - across banking, telecom and media and his last professional assignment was as CEO of Reliance MediaWorks (Adlabs) covering film production, distribution, studios, post production, television and cinemas across India, US and Malaysia. He brings a strong understanding of building creative businesses and shaping growth strategies.Siddarth Punjabi works as an external consultant with EY in the Media & Entertainment Industry and over the months has worked on projects across multiple domains He has successfully sourced, negotiated and closed a multi crore buy-side deal for a leading Music Publishing company helping them achieve number 2 position in the Telugu music industry. He is also running 3 buy-side mandates in the music, movie and gaming sector. At EY, he is incharge of networking and establishing professional connections with key stakeholders in specific segments in the Media and Tech Industry. He also handles client management, building the investments practise from scratch, team handling, strategizing and executing division expansion. FeesThe fee for the residency is INR 50,000 plus GST which includes Masterclasses, exercises, and one-on-one sessions.
Please note that the fee excludes your accommodation, local transport and meals outside of the residency hours.
​
If you are an alumni of any of ProducerLAND’s programmes, we’re happy to reduce the fee by 25% for you or anyone you would like to recommend for Power Up Your Production House.FAQBefore applying, please read our FAQ section.
If you have any questions and queries, reach out to Deepthi Pendurty at
deepthipendurty@thestoriculturecompany.com
​Let our mentors illuminate the roadmap for your company and help you scale new heights. Enrol for Power Up Your Production House today.Apply nowApplications close on 13 November 2023​The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/copy-of-producing-as-the-next-step ---

FAQ_Producing As The Next Step | Storiculture Draft
top of pageFAQ
FOR PRODUCING AS THE NEXT STEP
(WINTER EDITION)Who is Producing as the Next Step for?
Producing as the Next Step is for creative professionals who have at least 5 years of experience in their fields. Producers must be available for all sessions on-site in Goa.
Is Producing as the Next Step only for aspiring producers looking to produce Hindi/ English content?
Absolutely not! Our modules are designed for all film and series industries across regions. We invite applicants from all over India to be a part of the ambitious cohort of Producing as the Next Step.
Are there any scholarships for Producing as the Next Step?
Keeping in mind the paying capacity of our participants, ProducerLAND programs are designed to run at cost. As of now, we are unable to provide any scholarships for our programs.
Do I have to attend all the sessions of the residency?
Yes, please plan to attend all sessions during the residency. We ensure that all our  programs are tailor made for our participants and hence, all sessions are important!
Will the residency fee cover my travel and food costs?
Please note that the residency fee does not travel to and from Goa. We will provide breakfast and lunch but will not be able to provide dinner on residency days.
​
I am not available on the dates advertised. How can I still benefit from ProducerLAND resources?
In 2024, we are launching 8 new programs! We have various programs and residencies for different experience levels all year round. Please see what suits you best and which dates work for you.APPLY NOW
The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/deepdivemonsoonresidencies ---

Deepdive Monsoon Residencies | Storiculture Draft
top of pagePRODUCING AS THE NEXT STEPMonsoon Residencies in GoaCLOSED NOW
Are you an experienced professional in your own creative field looking to venture into long format producing?Introducing a transformative residency in Goa for experienced creatives in other media: Advertising, Broadcast, Journalism, Digital, Theatre, Dance and Audio.
10Curated
participantsUpto
04Intensive  days
04Open house Discussions
03Focused
individual  sessions
02Case
Studies
10+Mentors &
ExpertsWhat you will gain from this residencyLEARN
Get an in-depth and practical understanding of creative producing, with focused interactive sessions and masterclasses.
Interact with Industry Experts &amp; craft your own journey.BE INSPIRED
Deep Dive into experiences of recent long format projects
in India and beyond.
Gain valuable insights from home grown case-studies and individual stories.NETWORK
Form deeper relationships with your curated cohort with
similar career goals.
Build access to a strong community of peers, alumni and
industry experts and open new doors.Introducing our Industry Experts
who bring deep subject matter expertise
Miriam Joseph
Celine Loop
Arya Menon
Mathivanan
Stefano Tealdi
Koval Bhatia
Devendra Deshpande
Mrinalini KhannaWho is this forCreative professionals with a minimum of 5 years of expertise in their fieldsHave participated in at least one long format project in any capacityBe able to make a 4 day commitment to attend all sessions at the
residency in person in Goa.Applications for Residency 1 are now closedCLOSED NOWApplications for Residency 2 are open till 30, July 2023.CLOSED NOWFeesThe fee of the programme is INR 45,000 plus GST which includes Masterclasses, case studies, exercises, open houses, a final mixer, breakfast and lunch.
Please note that the fee excludes your accommodation, local transport, and meals outside of the workshop hours.
FAQReach out to Deepthi Pendurty at
deepthipendurty@thestoriculturecompany.com
for any questions and queries
The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/beyond-the-mainstream-hero ---

BEYOND THE MAINSTREAM HERO | Storiculture Draft
top of pageBeyond the mainstream
hero : Gazing a transgressive masculinities on screen10th Jan 2024 .  6 min readIndian cinema’s construction of masculinity, for decades, has been loaded with narratives where men rescue women (damsel in distress), fight with other men to protect the heroine, or lay their lives down, rather happily, to safeguard the pride of their nation. These binaries which construct our most beloved heroes are layered with expectations of what the society and the nation-state as a whole, desires modern masculinity to look like. The filmic construction of tough masculinity has been forced upon men for generations. However, men are so much more than what we have mostly seen on screen, and perhaps sometimes, a female gaze is all a film needs in order to showcase that.
Laura Mulvey coined the term ‘male gaze’ in her article, Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema (1975), to reflect on how film as a medium “reflects, reveals and even plays on the straight, socially established interpretation of sexual difference which controls images, erotic ways of looking, and spectacle,” that  more than often, uses a phallocentric approach in its treatment of male characters (Mulvey, 01). But what happens when we reverse this gaze? Does that shift the on-going/dominant narrative of storytelling?
Female Gaze does not merely constitute an inversion of the male gaze. It rather means that the visual artistry of the film is constructed and portrayed from a standard narrative form. Zoe Dirse, a well-known Canadian cinematographer in her work, Gender in Cinematography: Female Gaze (Eye) Behind the Camera (2013), while exploring the aesthetic perception of the female gaze from the point of view of production states that, when we as a society arrive at a juncture where minorities from different racial, ethnic or class backgrounds, produce cinema, their art would demand a shift in the gaze. It would perhaps be too soon to say that we have arrived at this juncture, but it would be false to say that we haven’t started the journey!
‘A Death in the Gunj’ (2016), a family-drama film set in 1979, directed by Konkona Sen Sharma, is worth-mentioning as we traverse the unexplored cinematic universe of male characters whose masculinity falls through the ruptures that lie within the cycles of hegemonic masculinity depicted in Indian cinema.
(Image: a shot of Shutu and Tani watching the sunlight pass through a magnifying glass and hit an ant. Source: A Death in the Gunj 2016) Konkona Sen Sharma’s treatment of Shyamal Chatterjee aka Shutu’s character, played by Vikrant Massey, brings on-to the screen a certain amount of tenderness that carves out space for a character like Shutu to express the vulnerability in his emotions. Shutu struggles to come to terms with his father’s death and academic failure, while at the same time, feels alienated and unloved among his family members. Shutu is often the target of his cousin Nandu (played by Gulshan Devaiah) and Nandu’s friends’ perverseness. During a game of kabaddi, they force him to play and he ends up getting injured through the course of the game; Their relationship with Shutu is marked by cruel pranks at the cost of Shutu’s self esteem. Amidst all these tensions, we see Shutu and the youngest member of the family, his 8 year-old niece Tani develop a beautiful friendship, where they are seen ‘spending time against muted backgrounds carrying out mundane activities’.
(Image: Shutu forcefully grabs the gun from his uncle, O.P Bakshi, played by Om Puri and [spoiler warning] shoots himself. Source: A Death in the Gunj 2016)While Shutu as a character succeeded in revealing the tropes of gendered oppression within familial relationships and expose the suffocating nature of toxic masculinity on screen, Irrfan Khan’s performance as Rana in Piku (2015) brought a breath of fresh air and won the hearts of the female audience. While the protagonist of the film, Piku (played by Deepika Padukone) is busy navigating her relationship with her father Bhashkor (played by Amitabh Bachchan); we witness Rana’s empathy towards Piku on their long journey from Delhi to Kolkata. Their longing for each other is expressed not through words, but through the glances they share with each other as their bond grows organically.
(Image: Piku and Rana share a glance while everyone else in the car is asleep. Source: Piku 2015)As we talk about how the female gaze allows men to be themselves, Koode (2018), directed by Anjali Menon is worth a mention. Koode is a Malayalam language film that chronicles the return of Joshua (played by Prithviraj Sukumaran) from Dubai for the funeral of his sister Jenny (played by Nazariya) after  succumbing to congenital disease. He was sent to Dubai at a young age to earn money to pay for Jenny’s medicines. When he returns, he is forced to confront his parents about sending him away and the general neglect he endured for Jenny’s sake. Joshua, internally, also has to come to terms with the sexual abuse he faced at the hands of his uncle as a teenager moving to Dubai, and the recent death of his sister.
Joshua does not put up a front of how broken he is. He is withdrawn, repressive, and silent. That silence is telling. “Joshua is antithetical to toxic masculinity, in fact, he’s written to show us how it breaks some men” . Joshua wishes to take Sophie (played by Parvathy) away from her abusive family but instead of barging in and taking on a fight with her relatives, Joshua walks with silent determination and says “if she’s willing to come with me, I’ll take her.” Sophie was his childhood sweetheart and she too is recovering from the trauma of abuse faced at the hands of her ex-husband. Joshua sees a companion in Sophie. (Image: a shot of Joshua. Source: Koode 2018)Anjali Menon calls for a reimagination of masculinity where when threatened with bodily harm, Joshua doesn’t suddenly become the ‘mass hero’ but instead, steps back, clearly scared. The scars of his past are always with him. Sophie rescues Joshua from physical harm by declining his offer and later cleverly sneaks away and comes to his house. They run away together, putting distance between their traumatic past and the future they wish to create.
(Image: Sophie and Joshua in front of her family. Source: Koode 2018)Anjali Menon could not have brought Joshua to life without Kuttan (played by Nivin Pauly) from Bangalore Days (2014). Kuttan is the “new-gen patriarch” (Aslam and Balakrishnan, 1814). Shy and naive, Kuttan struggles to transition from his homeland village to the urban setting of Bangalore. He is old-fashioned and describes his dream girl as a woman in sari who would bring him tea on a tray but eventually falls in love with Meenakshi (played by Isha Talwar), an air hostess who offers him food on a tray. Meenakshi uses Kuttan to make her ex-lover jealous and when he confronts Kuttan with a punch to the face followed by a passionate reunion between the lovers, Kuttan just picks up his work bag, his glasses, and walks out of the apartment with a nose-bleed. It is only in the next scene with his cousins that Kuttan mourns the end of his relationship, drunk, crying, and singing somewhere in Bangalore. Even in this instance, Menon allows Kuttan vulnerability and does not subjugate him to the usual emotions of men drinking and mourning their lost loves. Arjun (played by Dulquer Salman) reveals to Kunju (played by Nazariya) that Kuttan did not even consume alcohol, his behaviour is spurred on by the cola he drank. Menon rejects the usual connection between masculinity and alcohol by refusing to let Kuttan participate in that cinematic history. She allows Kuttan to exhibit emotions without being encouraged by alcohol consumption.
(Image: Kuttan at a job interview at the start of the film. Source: Bangalore Days 2014)
(Image: Kuttan leaving Meenakshi’s apartment. Source: Bangalore Days 2014)The freedom of the female gaze allows men to be vulnerable without being shamed for it. The above mentioned films are just a few examples of what shifting the gaze can bring to the table; the huge difference it creates in showcasing how gender is portrayed/performed on the screen. It sheds light on the experience of  men whose performance of  gender transgresses from the popular imagination of masculinity.
Film as a medium can both imitate and influence how gendered norms are created and propagated in our society. To acknowledge the potential of this medium and engage with it accordingly would not only provide fresh narratives with complex and more layered characters around the themes of masculinity, romance, companionship and friendships but also compliment the ever-evolving nature of gender and identity in Indian cinema. REFERENCES:
​
Mulvey, Laura.Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema. Screen, Volume 16, Issue 3, October 1975, pp. 6-18.
Aslam, Almas & Dr. K. Balakrishnan. Female Gaze in Anjali Menon’s Movies Bangalore Days and Koodae: An Analysis, Volume 11 Issue 5, May 2022, pp 1813-1817.
Alcohol consumption three times higher among youngsters watching Bollywood movies: Study
Ms Representation: The deliberate slowness of Anjali Menon's Koode
Muskan Dhar is a researcher/writer based out of Goa. Her research interests span across themes of memory, sexualities, South Asian cinema and resistance movements. Her fondest memories of South Asian cinema reside in the drawing room of her house where she watched films like Do Bigha Zameen on Doordarshan with her mother.Varsha Vijay credits UofT with forcing the skill of writing into her system. She is currently based out of Goa and is thankful to Muskan for editing her writing and making this article read-worthyThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/imim-open-call ---

IMMERSE | Storiculture
top of pageIM/IM OPEN CALLApply Now
↗️
This December, IM/IM is looking to showcase an immersive and impactful experience that provokes reflections on the human experience. If you have created work that delves into themes of identity, emotion, connection, isolation, vulnerability, resilience or transformation, we’d like to hear from you. We are also looking for works that are socially conscious and engage with stories from diverse identities and lived experiences.
IM/IM is looking for works that:
Provoke reflection on all aspects of the human experience, including but not limited to themes of gender and identity, climate action, digital rights,  etc
Are relevant and relatable to a diverse audience based in Goa.
Have the ability to engage with an audience of at least 50 people, individually or collectively.
The immersive projects should fall under one or more of the following categories:
Immersive Theater/Performance
Immersive Food Experiences
Mixed Reality (MR)
360° Video Experiences
Projection Mapping
Interactive Spatial Installations
XR Storytelling
The selected candidate will receive financial support of upto 1.5 Lakhs to execute their project in a location based in Goa.
If you’ve designed and premiered an experience that fits this description then send us your application before 29th September, 2023. Apply Now ↗️
The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/pitchperfect ---

Deepdive | Pitch Perfect
top of page3-6 October, 2023Closed for applicationsFAQAn online programme with global pitching expert Stefano Tealdi, and producers Céline Loop and Mathivanan Rajendran to transform your story idea to a high-impact memorable pitch.ProducerLAND Deep Dive brings to you a one of a kind opportunity to learn how to build and present an effective pitch for yourself and the project you are currently working on. Attend masterclasses, exercises, discussions and receive first-hand feedback from mentors and peers.Pitch Perfect will equip you with skills to make effective oral pitches and designing impactful pitch decks!Who is it for?Producers with at least one short or long form producing credit Must have an active
project at any stage of Development or ProductionMust be available online for all days of the programWhat you getPitch like a pro: Discover the secrets of pitching your film project with unwavering confidence and conviction.
​
Masterclass with the best: Get hands-on advice from industry experts who've brought multiple film and series visions to life. Delve deep into pertinent topics like audience and distribution.
​
Pitch practice: Put your learnings to the test in intensive exercises led by our mentors.
Finish with a Mock Pitch Panel and receive invaluable feedback.
​
Mock pitch with industry panel: Demonstrate your newly learned skills in front of a panel of industry experts.MentorsStefano Tealdi is a leading international filmmaker, producer
and pitch expert. He tutors film development, production, and film pitching for organisations such as Biennale Cinema College, Cannes Film Market, Dubai Film Connection, Films de 3 Continents – Produire au Sud, Media Business School, Med Film Factory, Scuola Holden, TFL-Torino Film Lab, ZELIG Film School.Céline Loop is at the forefront of Independent Indian cinema, and has backed unconventional and standout indie projects which have travelled to major global festivals. She is the co-founder of The Storiculture Company, a 'native-for-global' network of film and content expertise, and is the Programme Director of ProducerLAND South Asia's first-ever advanced learning & network development programme for film producers.Mathivanan Rajendran is a Producer and a global UX strategist with over decade of designing digital experiences for retail, consumer engagement for global majors. He has produced films, theatre and digital content & his award winning films include Nasir, Nirvana Inn & Impact-Short B.Selvi & Daughters.
An alumni of EAVE (Europe) 2020, he has also been selected to the prestigious BAFTA Breakthrough 2022 Program.FeesThe fee of the online program is INR 17,000 plus 18% GST. As seats are limited to 10 participants, we encourage you to secure your spot early and become part of a cohort of bold and cutting-edge producers.FAQBefore applying, please read our FAQ section.
If you have any questions and queries, reach out to Deepthi Pendurty at deepthipendurty@thestoriculturecompany.com
​Get mentored by international mentors,
receive invaluable feedback and work towards creating an unforgettable cutting edge pitch. The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/sci-f ---

Sci Fi in South Asia | Storiculture Draft
top of pageDecolonising
Sci-Fi in South AsiaSci-Fi in South AsiaSci-Fi in South AsiaWritten by Sneha Nair
Designed by Yash SaxenaSouth Asian Science Fiction has taken several imaginative forms of looking
at the world  - the most notable being that of a decolonized society.
Pakistani sci-fi, fantasy, and horror writer Usman T Malik defines
Science Fiction as:
​
“The literature that explores the boundaries of knowledge ... that definition
is mostly applicable to speculative fiction’s subgenres, including magical
realism, fantasy, and horror; it’s just the class of knowledge that changes
within each.”
Mainstream English-language science fiction, as we know it today, has
been shaped by Anglo-American writers, editors, and markets. From
Margaret Cavendish and Daniel Defoe to the recent, mainstream
examples of the genre, such as Battlestar Galactica, or The
Terminator, one can always trace the modern history of sci-fi
through its entanglement with colonialism. Much of the pulp
Science Fiction of the early twentieth century in the United
States of America was aimed at an audience of male adolescents or
young, often technically trained, men.
​
But works that utilize Speculative Science Fiction and Fantasy (SFF) conventions and tropes have existed long before in South Asia. The earliest works of SFF in the subcontinent were written in Bengali, Tamil, and Urdu in the mid-19th century, and published in Calcutta, Madras, and Lucknow respectively (although oral stories go back even further).
The Dastan-e-Amir Hamza, adapted from the oral dastan into written Urdu by Ghalib Lakhnavi in 1885, or its literary successor, the Tilism-e-Hoshruba, written by Muhammad Husain Jah in 1883 are works that are brimming with magic and the fantastical, jinns and paris, trickster ayyars and parallel magical universes called tilisms, centuries-old prophecies and classic good vs evil battle scenes.“Science fiction” as a distinct, recognizable genre term came together only in the early twentieth century, and “fantasy” a few decades later.When it comes to the early 19th century South Asian impulse to decolonize -  imagining an alternate Asian sci-fi more specifically, one can observe a pervasive future and question existing hierarchies
Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain’s Sultana’s Dream is a feminist utopian novel first published in 1905. It beautifully explores the concepts of gender and the notion of public and private space situated within 20th-century colonial Indian nationalist and gender politics using science fiction tropes.
Jagdish Chandra Bose’s Nirrudeshar Kahini ("The Story of the Missing") in 1896 tells the story of the sudden dispersion of a cyclone that had been threatening Calcutta and turns the narrative tropes of Western science fiction on its head undermining Western science as just a tool of imperial control.Fun Fact!
In 1835, an 18-year-old Bengali student, Kylas Chunder Dutt wrote a fantasy set in 1945 where the people of Indostan overthrew the British
Now, non-white populations with violent histories of colonialism and slavery have used sci-fi to draw
upon their own heritages, displace the
West from the center of popular
imagination and reclaim
agency.
More recently, digital art, comics, and graphic novels have entered the space providing budding speculative fiction artists, and writers a platform to showcase their fantastical stories.
Omar Gilani, a Pakistani visual artist, takes a multimedia approach to a South Asian sci-fi world, with his Pakistan + series — replete with bionic beggars and hovering doodhwalas — that depicts a Pakistan both cybernetic and traditional, utopian and dystopian.
Bishakh Som’s new graphic novel Apsara Engine imagines an alternate geographical space — though not necessarily a utopia — where “nymphs” exist without being restricted by fetishistic attention.
And online editorial Tasavvurnama, a brand new fiction magazine dedicated to publishing the best and brightest of South Asian sci-fi and fantasy.
These graphic novels are deeply rooted in the subcontinent's culture and tackle the present socio-economic challenges through elements of magical realism. Like the genre of ‘Indo-futurism’ that involves delving into India’s rich ancient history to try and reimagine alternate futures through historical/mythical characters. ​
While South Asian sci-fiction in literature has taken center stage with books like The Gollancz Books of South Asian Science Fiction Volume 2  that goes well beyond traditional SF to embrace horror, fantasy, and climate fiction. Only a few countries in the sub-continent have been able to adapt the genre into mainstream media successfully.
Coke Studio Pakistan broadcasts futuristic sonic fusions; Ismail Ka Urdu Sheher is a novel and musical project centered on cosmic-dwelling Pakistanis, and The Burka Avenger is a Pakistani burka-clad superhero.
Indonesian movie, Gundala blends a Batman-style origin story with head-spinning martial arts, with director Joko Anwar proving that superhero spectaculars can save the day outside Hollywood.
The Halt (2019) takes place in 2034, after a series of volcanic eruptions thrust Australasia into perpetual darkness, a deadly flu has eradicated much of the population of Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands. The movie depicts a certain skepticism of Western technology and surveillance.
Popular streaming sites like Netflix and Amazon provide India with a good dose of “sci-fi” and “fantasy” with shows like “Dark”,  “Fate: The Winx Saga:”, and “Stranger Things” being some of the most watched shows in the country. Parrot Analytics found that the audience demand for Stranger Things is 30.9 times the demand of the average TV series in India when it was released back in 2018.
But Bollywood has embraced sci-fi and CGI spectacles to embellish pro-Hindu-nationalist storylines. Blockbusters like the recent Brahmastra (2022) still focus on historical fiction, which restricts the futuristic imagination of the genre. ​
Avatar (2009) set the high-water mark for India, where South Asian audiences purchased $24 million worth of tickets—about 10 percent of foreign ticket sales worldwide.  But for most science fiction, countries with smaller GDPs than India (Australia, Mexico, South Korea) are higher consumers. ​
Avengers' (2012) $888 million worldwide, $12 million came from India; The Hobbit (2012) made $714 million worldwide; it took home $1.8 million in India. (Atlantic).
The popularity of Sci-fi serves to reiterate the importance of speculative fiction in reflecting upon possible and desirable futures, as diverse texts and voices are increasingly brought to the table. The best of the genre evokes in us a sense of awe, and also a sense of vulnerable humanity. The genre has opened up new spaces, and opportunities while reflecting our own reality - no matter how unpleasant.
​
​
In South Asia, literature and graphic novels exploring alternate realities and fantastical worlds have found a variety of creators and consumers, but mainstream media is slow to catch up in both production value as well as narrative scripts. The “post-colonial” era has brought a treasure trove of intellect and imagination to its people, the industry now just needs to tap into it.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/djinnsxjam ---

GENRE.X | DJINNSXJAM
top of pageDjinns X JamA SERIES OF CREATIVE HACKATHONS
AROUND THE THEME OF FUTURISMCOME TOGETHER TO EXPERIMENT WITH VISUAL TOOLS AND COLLABORATE ON CREATING FUTURISTIC NARRATIVES.At our first "Djinns X Jam," we explore Climate change through the lens of Futurism, imagining a future society with storytelling & world-building.DAY 01 | AI CONVERSATION > AI + ART JAM​
A dialogue amongst key stakeholders in the new wave of AI Art to grasp how the artistic communities in South Asia can understand and embrace this technology as they step into a new future.
Saad Z. Hossain
Prateek Arora
Divyansha Sehgal
Hasan
Pinar Seyhan Demirdag
Aalap DavjekarDAY 02 | WORKSHOPSFour selected creators with their creative buddies underwent a day of training in using various AI tools and creating climate narratives.> GENERATIVE AI BY
AALAP DAVJEKARAalap Davjekar, our AI-facilitator led the workshops on Generative AI.
Aalap’s expertise lies at the crossroads of emerging tech & art, using cutting-edge deep learning models like Stable Diffusion & MidJourney to create stunning new media art, animation, and design.> STORY TELLING FOR CLIMATE FUTURES BY ALINA GUFRANAlina Gufran, our story facilitator, led a workshop on Storytelling For Climate Futures.
Alina’s expertise lies in creative development and exploring the complexities of female identity and its various schisms through her fiction and non-fiction. Her work has been featured in publications such as Livemint, Himal South Asian, and The Swaddle.DAY 03 | EXHIBITIONThe day culminated with a presentation of all the developed narratives, followed by a peer review session.
Creators from other communities were invited to be a part of the presentations and a mixer event with food and music, to interact with the participants about their thought experiments and offer them peer-review.> AI PLAYGROUND HACKATHONImagine a future where humanity has recognized and dismantled the economic system that caused the climate crisis, and collectivist societies have emerged as a successful alternative to neoliberalism.
On the Konkan coast, one such society was spared from being submerged, resulting in them turning to eco-spiritualism.
Here, the youth are encouraged to express themselves through fashion, as a reflection of their connection to the environment and local mythology. They come together to document their culture and pay respects to their histories in this piece.> THREADS OF TIME
by Eeshita Kapadiya and Prabhakar Duwarah> SKIN DEEP
by Aastha Singh and Ishan HendreThe piece explores scenarios of what could happen when climate change forces humanity to evolve.
​
What if human beings used designer drugs to accelerate the power of their skin’s capability to withstand the climate change crisis?
Skin Deep imagined a world where these drugs led to a synthesis of human DNA with that of plants. Human skin began to adopt elements from animals and plants to adapt to the rapidly deteriorating environment.> A MURDER OF CROWS
by Sarat Rao and Adhir VaddadiCrows are curious, highly intelligent, playful beings, and they’re all around us. In a world that is deteriorating due to climate change caused by human action, what would happen if these crows decided to take matters into their own claws? What if they tried to take over the world to save it from being destroyed by us humans?
These are the speculative thoughts central to the journey that is ‘Murder Of Crows’, a piece that is reflective of how human pride and greed ignore the plight of the world we live in. It is a multi-modal art project that intends to combine text, art (AI and human), and music.> SONG OF EXTINCTION
by Anupam MahajanIt highlights the often-overlooked consequences of species extinction of trees in South Asia, specifically the Nemosa, Ambali, and Pipal.
The climate crisis poses a significant threat to these indigenous tree species, potentially triggering a devastating domino effect on Earth's biodiversity.
Through personification, the piece emphasises the cultural and ecological significance of these trees.PARTNER WITH US!Get in touch with us to work on the next editions of Djinns X Jam and participate in thematic exploration of Futurism.PHOTO GALLERY1/30The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/ko-in-india ---

KO in India | Storiculture World
top of pageKO in IndiaWritten by Sneha Nair
Designed by Yash SaxenaThe Korean Wave, better known as the Hallyu Wave has taken India by storm, and it looks like it’s here to stay. The mid-1900 - the mid-2000s saw the popularity of South Korean TV dramas and pop music dramatically increase in Asian countries such as China and Japan. In 1997, when the TV drama called “What Is Love” was aired in China, it ranked second in China’s all-time imported video content. It was then that the term Hallyu or the “Korean Wave” first appeared, referring to the global craze for Korean culture. A recent Netflix study done in India tracks a 370% increase in the number of Indians watching K-dramas!But unlike popular belief, Indian fans for Korean content existed long before the Pandemic hit us. In the mid-2000s, the separatist group Revolutionary People’s Front (RPF) banned the consumption of all forms of Indian entertainment, in the North-Eastern State of Manipur. What followed was an influx of Korean cinema, shows, and music, chiefly through pirated means. Furthermore, local cable stations began broadcasting shows from Korean channels like Arirang and KBS World. The K-pop subculture then gradually spread its roots to other Northeastern states. (Source: First Post)
What followed was the combination of the Pandemic, a dearth of good Western content on OTT platforms, and Netflix’s diversification of its library giving rise to the incredible popularity that K-Pop now enjoys in the country.
How popular IS Korean content in India?
The K-pop contest in India, organized by the Korean Cultural Center six years ago, hardly had 35 participants and 300 spectators. But in 2019, a total of 1952 teams and 3475 participants entered the contest.
Korean is currently the fastest-growing foreign language in India. The language-learning platform Duolingo saw an 11% increase in Korean learners in India between October 2019 and February 2020.Korean is currently the fastest-growing foreign language in India. The language-learning platform Duolingo saw an 11% increase in Korean learners in India between October 2019 and February 2020.
Netflix, Reliance TV, Zee TV, and now MX player have dubbed versions in vernacular languages and even aired them on tv.
Six Korean Titles featured in Netflix India’s Top 10 trending list since March 2020. Kingdom Season 2, It's Okay to Not Be Okay, and Crash Landing On You are among the series to have regularly featured in this list.With an increasing familiarity with Korean food through K-dramas, the import of Korean noodles in India also witnessed a volume growth of 162% in 2020. (Source: Moneycontrol)Indian audience for Korean ContentAs of January 2022, India made the second largest share of viewers for the K-Pop  band BTS with around 110 views on Youtube
Korean dramas offer its audience drama ( love triangles, kidnappings, sudden bouts of amnesia), songs shot in foreign locations, romance, and humor making them very familiar to Indian television. This and other cultural similarities make the content relatable to an Indian audience.  Korean music is also language - barrier agnostic, in a way that Tier 2 and Tier 3 vernacular audiences can be found speaking fluent Korean and learning to sing phonetically.
Unlike the western music scene, K-pop bands and their fans forge a symbiotic bond where both parties constantly acknowledge each other’s presence.
For most fans, the affair with South Korean culture began with Korean popular music (K-pop) and its biggest bands such as Bangtan Sonyeondan (BTS), Blackpink, MonsterX, iKon, Big Bang, Twice, and Red Velvet. K-Pop music stars are known to push gender barriers by not conforming to “masculine” looks. This also means that while young women in India are drawn to these idols, men who show any interest in them are
shamed for being too  “effeminate”. A Developing Market While streamers like Netflix are including more Asian content, the Indian film industry is yet to catch up. One of the leading causes is India's persistent history of systemic racism and the othering of people, specifically those who belong to Northeastern states.
The music industry on the other hand has started to open up to K-Pop. For years, Indian fans have noticed similarities between K-pop and Bollywood songs. In 2020, a clip that mashed superstar band BTS's choreography for Boy With Luv and the Bollywood hit Chunari Chunari went viral.
In 2019, Rolling Stone India started a series where K-pop stars reacted to songs by independent music artists in India through which Indian singer-songwriter Armaan Malik and Korean-American artist Eric Nam collaborated to make Malik’s first English single - Echo.
In 2020, K-pop star Wengie worked with Indian artists Shalmali and Ikka for her single Thing You Want, incorporating Punjabi bhangra into a track that also had elements of EDM and trap. (BBC).
K- Pop and K-Drama fans across South Asia have never been shy about purchasing Korean merchandise. This is why K-pop NFTs are now looking to enter the market and capitalize on this fandom. India is also among the Top 10 Countries Tweeting Most on K-Pop.Young K-pop Indian fans stay connected and have a strong social media presence through various fan groups dedicated to Korean content. They celebrate every idol’s birthday, and group anniversaries and some even follow the fan calendar of Selcadays, the short form for “self-camera” and selfies for Koreans.
Tamil Nadu is a perfect example of how social media is being used to bring fans together. K- Dramas have managed to fill the gap of a lack of Tamil content aimed at young Tamil girls. Chennai has the largest South Korean community in India, which has been growing ever since auto giant Hyundai opened its first factory near the city in 1997. Now, with multiple Facebook and Instagram pages dedicated to Korean Romance dramas, Tamil Nadu may be the biggest market for Korean content in India. Tamil memes dedicated to Korean dramas are liked and shared by thousands of women across the State, and the fandom only seems to be getting stronger.Korea has long used its pop culture influence as a form of soft power, especially over Developing countries. One-third of venture capital in Korea is spent on the entertainment industry—more than on any other sector in the Nation. India and Korea have had a relationship for decades, with South Korea currently being the fifth largest source of investment in India. Korean companies such as LG and Samsung have established manufacturing and service facilities in the country, and several other economic collaborations are underway.
While the Korean Wave has brought with it huge economic opportunities in India, it has also managed to challenge racial and gender stereotypes, gain a huge Global audience, and integrate cultures making its content the future of the Media industry. The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/gen-z-content ---

The Pandemic, Gen Z & Content | Storiculture World
top of page
Written by Sneha Nair
Designed by Yash SaxenaThe generation* that grew up with the internet - and KNOW how to use it!*Generation Z refers to those born in 1997–2012 and  ranging in age from 9 to 25 in 2022Whether it’s making a purchase or choosing a show to binge,
Gen-Zers do tons of research before making a decision.According to Think with Google:   Of Gen Zers search for
information online.
74%    Of these people search
specifically to verify details.
47%Across APAC, almost a 3rd of Gen Zers spend 6 hours or longer a day on their phones, and engage better with socially conscious content.But why is all this relevant?Well...eneration z is redefining expectations from contentGThis generation displays strikingly different entertainment preferences than older age groups. They appreciate content that is both impactful and authentic, but in these challenging times, they prefer consuming something that puts a hopeful spin on a stressful situation. Entering the workforce at such a challenging time has added to their mental health issues.
​
Having entered
the workforce
at a stressful time,Gen Z represents 23% of the population in Asia Pacific (APAC) 57% [Source: Deloitte’s 2021 Digital Media Trends]
say their
mental health
has  worsened.In India, Gen Z prefer binge watching & multilingual content 70% youth have turned towards OTT platforms in their spare timeNot surprisingly, Comedy, Thriller, and Action-based entertainment were the top 3 preferences of GenZ audiences (source: Dentsu survey). Along with existing subscribers, new OTT subscription purchases during lockdown spiked across India.
comedythriller
crime16.5%
action13%12.5%12.1%On the content side, comedy remained the most popular genre followed by thriller, crime and action.In a quest for the new and curious,  people signed on to 3 new OTT platforms on average during the lockdown.
[Source: Dentsu Marketing Cloud Insights ]The M&E sector in India is expected to exceed $34 billion by 2022. The content broadcast over these OTT platforms offers a wider range of content that goes beyond the traditional gatekeeping of Indian Cinema.
[Source: FICCI & EY]A curious new audience means new growth.   OTT platforms are seeing intense localization activity and expansion across both rural and urban India Around 65% of video consumption comes from the rural parts of India that have only 40% online connectivity.
[Source: Broadband India Forum]
With more than 1 in 3 individuals accessing the Internet in India, penetration in urban areas is twice that in rural areas. To make young people from Tier-2 and Tier-3 towns see stories set in their own world, streaming platforms are not only giving them content in their regional language but also uncensored slang that they use in their day-to-day lives.
[Source: FICCI & EY]Gen Zers want nuances in a world of bite-sized information.
So, how do you grab their attention?
With a shorter attention span and out-of-the-box media preferences, Gen Z view significantly more video media on platforms like YouTube and Tik-Tok. ​70% of Gen Zerssay they learned about new brands & films via video-based social media at least once a month.
[Surveyed by Mckinsey Asia]The Primary news sources for Gen Z in APAC areFacebook (37%)
Google  (33%)
YouTube (31%)
[According to Think with Google]
But there's competition for content.
During the pandemic, along with baking banana bread, a new trend started to make the rounds in the country -
GAMING
​BIG increase in casual gaming for the Indian youth (almost 50%)5 bn gaming applications are downloaded annually in India. OTT based gaming has gained significant popularity during the lockdown.
​Across South East Asia, the gaming gender gap is closing rapidly. In 2019, 100M female gamers made up 40% of the region’s gaming community.
​[Source: EY (2018) & Think with Google]With gaming becoming more democratized in terms of engagement. Gen Z gaming is removing any class hierarchy in tier 1 and tier 2 cities in India and Indonesia.The Pandemic and Gen Z are redefining the media being created and being consumed. As we continue on this journey, we have to reimagine what keeps them engaged, authentic and most importantly entertained! The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/sc-w-events ---

Sc.w events | Storiculture Draft
top of page
BackEventsWe host Masterclasses, Networking events, Mock Pitches, Film Screenings, Sharing Circles, and Peer Interactions virtually for SC.W Members and in person at our office in Aldona, Goa.Virtual EventsMock Pitch - A session where you get the chance to practice and pitch your concept to a select group of peers and finesse your pitch in real-time.Virtual eventsWeb Jam - A space for creators to jam on what inspires them & their process without fear of judgment or the pressure of 'someone to impress’.Field Notes - A dynamic & empowering space, where we have experts & panel discussions about the ins and outs of creation.Film ScreeningsOur 200-year-old Heritage office is home to Community film screenings, where we are joined by the filmmaker to jam on their journey and process of creation.film screeningsIn-person EventsFestak Yo | In collaboration with Creator Rooms, and Genre X, Storiculture World hosted Festak Yo! The Festak Yo October edition celebrated the themes of Gender and Genre as we came together to watch stimulating films and be a part of some gender-bending genre experiences.office eventsInternational Documentary Association (IDA) | In collaboration with IDA, Storiculture World became a community hub for the bi-annual conference for documentary filmmakers.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/destabilizing-the-terrain-of-idealized-m ---

Destabilizing the Idealized
Motherhood | Storiculture Draft
top of pageDestabilizing the Terrain of Idealized MotherhoodCinematic MooringsWritten By Yusra KhanA flurry of relatives. A young kid left alone to register the sudden death of her father, as she hugs herself tightly. A mother who returns back home, only to send her off to a boarding school - widening the distance between them even further.Loosely based on Ingmar Bergman’s Autumn Sonata (1978), Rituparno Ghosh’s Unishe April (1994) is an emotionally charged drama that presents an alternative motherhood, weaving together loss, maternal neglect, and isolation with unmatched realism. It gives us a glimpse into the complicated relationship between a celebrated classical dancer, Sarojini, and her only daughter, Aditi. Suffused with the intimate miseries of the occupants of the house, the end of the film spans an all-night confrontation about pent-up misunderstandings where Sarojini candidly admits, even as she tries to make Aditi believe how hard she tried to be there for her - ending up quitting dancing for a few years to let her mediocre and insecure husband be at ease:“I was not born to get married and have a family.”In both Bergman and Ghosh’s films, motherhood isn’t revered or put on a pedestal - it is subjected to the same human failings that are part and parcel of life, placing great importance to each character’s idiosyncrasies, steadily revealing buried secrets and years of accumulated pain.  In Ghosh’s Indian reworking, the relationship between mother and daughter isn’t as strained or filled with animosity; although it is broken, distant and underlined with regret.The figure of the mother has, in both reel and real life, been associated with obscene levels of self-abnegation. Classically in Hindi cinema, she has been portrayed as the impoverished suffering mother (Pyaasa, 1957; Deewar, 1975), selfless to a fault. Given the right plot build-up, she can be reincarnated into an avenging angel (Mom, 2017), or acting as a vehicle for post-colonial nation-building (Mother India, 1957). A vibrant array of movies are thankfully emerging to complicate this archaic understanding, embedding in the fabric of maternal depictions, its own private nudges.Moorings outside of these filmic notions have been done in a variety of genres. Consider Rahul Sadasivan’s Malayalam horror film, Bhoothakaalam (2022), which hinges on the strained relations between Vishnu and his mother Asha, who is clinically depressed. She shares a brittle relation with her son, holding him back from getting an outstation gig despite his continued unemployment. Her innate maternalism doesn’t tug at her conscience as the cruder realities of the story make Asha’s character give up on her child, poisoning a meal of dosas they were about to share. The duo is saved by an emotionally wrought conversation that steers them away from a final end. The dysfunctionality of the mother-son relation is rooted in a complex set of factors: worsening mental health and ghosts of a past that isn’t elaborated upon enough.
In Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s recent historical drama series Heeramandi (2024), mothers are often outright cruel, far from the oceanic love that typifies cinematic depictions. The ruthless Mallikajaan is a vicious matriarch, who is both controlling and manipulative. Despite these characteristics, she lays down her arms in order to save her daughter who gets caught up in a rebel conspiracy; she is raped in the police station that night, in a quid pro quo to free Alamzeb from jail. Another character, Waheeda, carrying traumas of her own, inflicts upon her daughter (Shama) her own pain and jealousy. In a particularly brutal scene, we see her tying up her breasts to flatten her chest, so the nawab she pines after doesn’t get infatuated by her. Within the folds of complexities faced by women traversing the politics of the early 20th century, caught between colonial masters and feudal lords, maternal care and affection do not manifest in recognizable ways, and are often missing from the picture altogether.
Single mothers are a topic for another piece altogether, but a quick reality check with societal assumptions would foretell one simple truism: a child without a father-figure is doomed. Thankfully, here, cinema has been rising to the occasion to give us a healthy counter-narrative of powerful single mothers that raise their children in a variety of conditions, the best they can.An evergreen, crowd-favorite portrayal of successful single motherhood is Ratna Pathak Shah in Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na (2008). Savitri takes an interest in local politics, always has a good book at an arm’s length, and best of all: she isn’t weeping after a dead husband, which might as well be a welcome respite. Her son knows how to cook, knows that there are ways beyond aggression to handle a conflict, and is a gentleman without even trying; the film manages to depict successful parenting without making it an occasion for overt displays of artificial progressivism.Single mothers have of late been shaped through many angles, breaking the shackles of one-dimensionality. Be it Deepti Naval’s Leela in Listen… Amaya (2013), where a widowed mother seeks companionship while facing resistance from her daughter, or Swara Bhaskar in Nil Battey Sannata (2015); in between the mother-daughter duo’s electrifying exchanges and wordless affections, the father’s absence is barely hinted at.Similarly, while there are many films where the mother figure is depicted in new and inventive ways, emancipation from the erstwhile near-godly status accorded to them needs a crucial ingredient: forgiveness. The space to be human, to make mistakes, to prioritize differently, to acknowledge individuality in the face of societal bonds.In Madhu C. In Narayanan's widely acclaimed Kumbalangi Nights (2019), the presence of the absent mother is felt throughout. Her decision to leave her home to become a nun, nursing traumas that remain unexplained but reverberate throughout the film, is not demonized. Her recourse to religion after her husband’s death only referred to in a vague but heartbreaking conversation between her son Bobby and his half-brother, Saji.“She could have come for only ten days. What kind of mother is she?!”
“You shouldn’t curse her. She suffered a lot for you. I have seen it.”Motherhood is too often conflated with the ultimate transformational stage that truly fulfills a woman, regardless of circumstance, personhood or a woman’s aims and ambitions. However, neither life, nor cinema is as dull or unimaginative as to provide formulaic bliss in the form of heteronormative familial life. Child-rearing is serious business, and the societal confines within which it happens can be suffocating at times. No person is infallible in the face of these hardened realities, and perhaps we need good cinema to remind us that before our mothers became our  mothers, they too, were people.
Yusra Khan is a writer and digital policy enthusiast based between Lucknow and Delhi. Her interests are versatile, but she is particularly fascinated by the intersection of politics, labour and technology studies.
Currently, she works at Nvidia as a prompt-writing specialist, bringing human creativity to AI-generated outputs. A film addict since childhood, she is rumored to have rewatched Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na over sixty eight times till date, and doesn't plan to stop.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com ---

Film & Content Expertise | The Storiculture Company | India
top of page
We empower bold and ambitious stories and voices from South Asia from the worlds of entertainment, journalism, knowledge and culture.
We maximize their potential to ignite conversations and inspire positive social impact through film, audio, digital, immersive experiences, and social communities.About TSCProperties
A transmedia accelerator for bold & original South Asian creators.
A space for South Asian screenwriters to write powerful & fearless stories.
Button
Button
South Asia's premier
community for Producers.
Where South Asia's most original creators come together.
Button
A Genre community from South Asia, bringing together ideas, fans and creators.
A Platform for Impactful Immersive Experiences.
Button
Crafting business solutions for
media entities.
"If you want to Learn about a Culture, listen to its Stories. If you want to Impact a Culture, influence its Stories.”The Storiculture Company, 1 Exotic Palace CHS, off Panch Marg, Versova, Andheri (W)
Mumbai - 400061, IndiaThe Storiculture Company
169/6, Quitla, Aldona, Bardez
Goa - 403508, IndiaWE ARE ATThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/strategy ---

STRATEGY | The Storiculture Company
top of pageWe empower bold and ambitious stories from the worlds of entertainment, journalism, art & culture and maximize their impact on relevant audiences worldwide.
Our programs help storytellers leverage our strategies & frameworks to dramatically reimagine the scale of their ideas for greater global impact. STRATEGY & FUNDSGlobal ExpertiseSynthesis of insights from global experts with custom frameworks to develop native stories with global outlook and potential.Transmedia & IP ExtensionStrategies to identify audiences and dramatically reimagine monetisation potential of stories across multiple formats.Audience & ImpactStory-audience frameworks that get ideas to market faster and create positive social change in people and communities.FUNDSWe invest in select innovative projects across Development, Production, Release & Impact.
Our capital, combined with our strategically driven intervention programs help these projects dramatically scale up their potential and impact.
Our collaborators - investors, distributors, buyers, co-producers, and impact funders partner with us to push creative excellence from South Asia and drive strong positive social impact.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/web-3-0 ---

Web 3.0 | Storiculture Draft
top of page
Web 3.0 for Asian creatorsWritten by Sneha Nair
Designed by Yash SaxenaThe creator economy is currently booming with more than 50 million people around the world who consider themselves creators. But Asian Creators don’t seem to be seeing the same kind of returns as their North American counterparts.This is where Web 3.0 heralds some interesting possibilities
Web 3.0 (Web3) is the third generation of the evolution of web technologies. In Web 3, platforms are becoming community-led, making it easier for both creators and their audiences to profit from their contributions.The creator economy is known to be skewed toward White creators.
With better resources and a user base that is willing to pay, creators from the West fall in the top tier of Creators, earning more than any other country. The origination, algorithms, and monetization models of platforms such as Facebook, and Google tend to support this as well. While Web 2.0 had platforms such as Spotify for Musicians to put their music out, it takes roughly 250 streams for an artist to earn $1, with the rest of the profits going towards Spotify itself. But now, Sound.xyz is a new startup looking to help recording artists monetize their community through NFTs, as they build out a suite of tools designed to bring musicians into Web 3.0.How will Web 3.0 work for Asian Creators?
Making up more than 60 percent of social media users worldwide, Asia takes up the majority share of the ecosystem. This also means that there is a large and untapped fandom that exists on the continent. Tokenising Fandom
With the combination of large Asian fan bases (K Pop, China, Indonesia) and major streaming platforms like Disney + not available in some Asian countries, Web 3.0 provides a unique opportunity for Creators to convert the intensity of Asian fandom into more meaningful interactions with the community. Through NFTs, digital collectibles, and social tokens creators can finally interact with their fans without platforms taking a cut.
The biggest example of this would be the very first Web3 Con, founded by Filipino Tech, Anotoys Collectiverse founder and CEO Oscar G. Tan-Abing Jr. who unveiled his company’s plans to reshape how the world enjoys fandom through emerging web3 technologies.
Web3 Con is the largest web3 and crypto conference in Southeast Asia to date, bringing together thousands of futurists, venture capitalists, innovators, fintech, and web tech aficionados from across the region. These fan bases also have the potential to develop, breaking through traditional means of engagement.​From Data Monarchy to Data Democracy
The future of trust is directly related to the end of centralization—and that can only be developed on open and permissionless platforms.
Facebook and Youtube are known to censor content that might seem offensive to a certain community, and more often than not it is white American creators who gain the most in terms of engagement and online attention, thanks to the platform's systems of algorithmic promotion of content. This is often the kind of gatekeeping that platforms use, which keeps creators of color at a disadvantage.
But with Web 3.0 and decentralized technology, Asian creators can now monetize their own content.   With over 450 blockchain-related startups in Singapore alone, Southeast Asia is one of the fastest-growing marketplaces for Web 3.0 applications ( Redseer).
Asian creators benefit not only from their sheer numbers but also from their audience’s willingness to embrace immersive experiences like Gaming.Asian creators benefit not only from their sheer numbers but also from their audience’s willingness to embrace immersive experiences like Gaming.Online Gaming
There are 3 billion gamers globally who spend US$200bn a year on consoles and in-app purchases such as NFTs. Korea, the Philippines, and Vietnam are the fastest-growing gaming economies in the world. (Antler). Unlike traditional games where once you leave a game, online gaming is seen by many as a precursor to the decentralized world of the metaverse, thanks to its virtual spaces where users can explore, interact and buy digital assets. China, South Korea, and Japan have the biggest online gaming reach, showing their predisposition towards virtual engagement. It’s this open and receptive nature that Asian creators can look to channel when designing new forms of interaction.Asia’s phenomenal digital rise has primed both creators and audiences for the leap into Web 3.0 that will allow creators and their fans to build ecosystems that serve them, as opposed to Big Tech. This new infrastructure has the potential to stimulate a new generation of Asian creators, resulting in a much more diverse, representative, and independent creator economy.
It took over 10 years to transition from the original web, Web 1.0, to Web 2.0, and it is expected to take just as long, if not longer, to implement and reshape the web with Web 3.0 entirely, but the future looks promising.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/expert-panel ---

Expert Panel | the Storiculture Company
top of pageOur diverse and passionate group of forward thinking 'Expert Storiculturists', actively support our mission and provide deep audience insights, global positioning and development strategiesGLOBAL INSIGHTSTanja Meissner
Festival and Sales StrategistMarc Irmer
International ProducerBenoit Roland
International ProducerTanja was Head of Acquisition & Sales at Memento Films Intl. for 12+ yrs Marc has 22+ years of experience as an International ProducerBenoit has 15+ years of experience as a Belgian Film ProducerWith an intimate knowledge of all the major festivals and markets, she was appointed for 12+ yrs as the head of sales & acquisition at Memento Films, a high-end arthouse and cutting-edge genre sales agency, designated to accompany and curating high-profile, director driven projects. Since Jan 2020, she works as an independent consultant.Know MoreAce producer since 2008 and member of the French Independent Producers’ Union (SPI), he was president of the French PROCIREP development fund in 2017, member of the CNC Cinema du monde commission and member of the North of France Regional commission from 2014 - 2018, as well as Media Expert for the European Commission.Know MoreCo-founder of production companies like Wrong Men and  10.80 Films, Benoit has 15+ yrs of experience as a Producer in which, he has co-produced over 25 features, docus & short films. These have travelled festivals like Cannes, Sundance, TIFF, Tribecca, Busan, etc. In 2018, he co-produced 'Patser' by Adil El Arbi & Billal Fallah, which broke all box office records in Belgium, as well as The NetherlandsKnow MoreJonas Benhaiem
International ProducerVijay Venkatramanan
Founder, Spotter | Post Producer & Film EditorFarah Fayed
Director of Programs - Beirut DCJonas manages acquisitions and productions for international films & seriesVijay Venkataramanan most recently served as the Director of Post Production for Netflix, India Farah is the director of programs at Beirut DC with a focus on the Impact programs. Jonas studied Political Sciences, and then Film Production at La Fémis, the French national film school. He worked at Backup Films on international film financing, at Wild Bunch on international sales and at Adama Pictures as a production supervisor on short-form TV series. In April 2017, he joined the recently-founded Charades where he is now managing acquisitions and productions.Know More
At Netflix, he built and led a team to deliver over 60 original titles across scripted series, feature films and non-fiction shows over three and a half years. He joined Amazon where he enabled in-house post production teams across Bangalore, Beijing and Chennai to collaborate over the cloud to help launch campaigns for Amazon Echo, Pay and Music. Vijay is the founder of Spotter, a comprehensive post production management services company, re-envisioning and re-structuring post management in emerging markets.Know MoreAfter graduating from the Audiovisual Department at Saint Joseph University in Lebanon, Farah Fayed spent eight years in Television, where she last served as a creative manager. In 2012, Farah joined the Dubai International Film Festival, managing the sales and acquisitions library for the last six editions of the festival. In 2019, she joined the team of Beirut DC. The Beirut DC Impact Programs aim to train impact producers and empower Arab filmmakers to use their social justice and environmental films to create positive change.Know MoreThe Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page

--- Content from https://www.thestoriculturecompany.com/chamkila ---

Chamkila : Amar Singh Chamkila & Amarjot | Storiculture Draft
top of pageAmar Singh Chamkila and AmarjotA tale of Love ,
Music &CensorshipWritten By Muskan DharWarning: this review contains spoilers.“Should we separate art from the artist?” A question that has been asked and debated as much in academic circles among theorists of cinema/media studies as in the filmmaking communities. This article tries to take this debate a step further. What have these binaries between art and the artist served us or rather why should we, as an audience, separate our iconic actors/artists from their art to understand them in a vacuum? Is it possible in this new digital era to view our artists using a well-rounded praxis where we understand them and their art as a product of a creative amalgamation of aesthetics and society’s treatment of their socially and politically bodied selves. This piece aims to unravel the world of art and its inherently close relationship with society and the local/global economy by using a brilliantly made film ‘Amar Singh Chamkila’.
Amar Singh Chamkila (2024), starring Diljit Dosanjh and Parineeti Chopra ( as the iconic duet Amar Singh Chamkila and Amarjot Kaur) and directed by Imtiaz Ali is a drama/musical based on the legendary lives of Amar Singh Chamkila and his partner, both professionally and in personal life, Amarjot Kaur. ‘Ali’s film brings to the fore the curiously intertwined nature of music, morality, and politics in Punjab. Viewed from a longer-term historical lens, Chamkila’s life story and music are part of the distinctly gendered and caste-inflected nature of Punjabi music-making’.Amar Singh Chamkila was a prominent Dalit folk singer and along with his talented partner Amarjot Kaur who was from a Jatt family (dominant caste that controls land and politics of the state), he ruled the brimming listening markets of the Punjabi music scene of the 1980s fueled by the new inexpensive ‘cassette culture’. Chamkila’s songs were oriented towards verbal recitation like the Punjabi folkloric traditions and women’s folk songs. His songs were mostly duets (with a female singer) sung in a conversational, back and forth banter style of singing/performance. These performances happened in akharas- open-air live musical concerts in rural Punjab. Their songs had references to trucks and truck drivers as his popularity among the working class population of 1980s Punjab was unmatched. This is not to say that he wasn’t popular among the middle class and the upper class. His popularity among the Savarna(s) was closeted as most of the reformists and the general atmosphere of post 1984 Punjab was primarily focused on matching an idea of state centred around educated middle class and upper caste chastity. Hence, sexual transgressions within and outside the household had no space in this idea of Punjab which according to religious/political authorities had to produce ‘chaste’ and ‘pure’ men and women.
Chamkila and Amarjot’s songs were often criticised for being ‘ashleel’/ sexually provocating due to which their music was constantly under scrutiny by ‘liberal’ media, journalists and Punjabi religious authorities. There is a crucial scene in the film where Chamkila avoids eye contact with a female journalist (Sahiba Bali) due to her western attire. She calls out his hypocrisy and questions Chamkila (Diljit Dosanjh) about the sexually lewd lyrics of his songs and how his lyrics portray/objectify women to which Chamkila replies that ‘dekha yeh sab hai madam, aisa baatein sunni hai. Har kisi ki na sahi-galat sochne ki aukaat nahi hoti madam, meri toh nahi hai. Mujh jaise ko toh bas jaise-taise zinda rehna hota hai, mai chance nahi le sakta ji. Aap samaj nahi paoge, mai bahut chota insan hu madam, muje vahi gaane banane hote hai jo log pasand kare, varna mai Khatam!’ (This is what I have seen madam, this is what I have heard. Not everyone can afford to think right and wrong. Some people just have to survive. I am a very ordinary man. I have to make the songs that people will like otherwise my career will be over).This scene brings us to the question of who is/was Chamkila and Amarjot’s audience? The songs sung by the duet were bringing the forbidden everyday in the public sphere, from from ‘illicit sexual relations both within (‘Sikhar Dupehre Nahaundi Si’, ‘Chaska Pai Gaya Saali Da’) and outside (‘Bapu Sada Gum Ho Gaya’) the family, to premarital sex, drug, and alcohol abuse (‘Pehle Lalkaare Naal’, ‘Sharabi Banke’)’. Although most of the audience physically present infront of Chamkila and Amarjot in the akharas were men, the women often ran up to the roofs of their houses in large groups to listen to the duet. He was popularly known as the ‘Roof Breaker’ (Kotha Dhau Kalakaar) as so many women flocked the roof that the roofs would cave and break!
Chamkila and Amarjot “combined the humour, playfulness, and a forbidden sensuality common to a much longer history of popular folksong of Punjab, whether those found in qissas or story-songs performed by rural mirasis (Punjab’s caste of genealogist-musician-bards), or women’s folklore and wedding songs (including the ‘joking’ genre of devar-bhabhi or jija-saali songs popular across north India) performed in women-only spaces, or during carnivalesque festivals like Holi. As with these songs, themes of sexual excess, innuendo, and desire dominate Chamkila’s lyrics”. It is said that they would do 366 shows in 365 days!The couple was assassinated on March 8, 1988 in Punjab as they stepped out of their car and were about to start another show. Such killings of musicians and artists across Punjab and in the Indian nation-state prompt new questions for academicians, film enthusiasts and filmmakers; one of the important questions being: Who decides what the public should listen to? It is also crucial to perhaps engage with the question of what is ‘appropriate art’ in the creative industry and the differences it beholds with subject to each artist, especially artists who come from marginalized communities. Chamkila and Amarjot’s struggle for success and their eventual fate as artists is deeply rooted in their love for music and rhythm, and in their resistance towards caste and gender norms prevalent in the society.Muskan Dhar is a researcher/writer based out of Goa. Her research interests span across themes of memory, sexualities, South Asian cinema and resistance movements. Her fondest memories of South Asian cinema reside in the drawing room of her house where she watched films like Do Bigha Zameen on Doordarshan with her mother.The Storiculture Company 2023 ©bottom of page